static/CLA/CLAform.md, before:

---
title: CONTRIBUTOR LICENSE AGREEMENT FORM
layout: page
---

# OpenWIS Association Contributor License Agreement - version 3 (CLAv3)

By completing and submitting this form, you confirm that you have read, understood and accept the current version of the [Contributor License Agreement]({{ "/rules/A-contributor-license-agreement.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}), [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}), [Technical Rules]({{ "/tr/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) and [Code of Conduct]({{ "/conduct/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) of the OpenWIS Association AISBL and the policies and procedures defined by the [OpenWIS Steering Committee]( {{"/structure/steering-committee.html" | prepend: site.baseurl}} ).  If required, please contact the OpenWIS Community Manager via [email](mailto:contact@openwis.io) for further clarification or help.

If you are submitting this form on behalf of an organisation, please include the names, GitHub IDs, email addresses and signatures of all contributors.

Please submit a scan of this completed form to the OpenWIS Community Manager via [email](mailto:contact@openwis.io)

----

## For contributions to (OpenWIS Association project(s) - required):

## Current project license (required):

## Organisation (if applicable):

## Full name(s) (required):

## GitHub account ID(s) (required):

## email address(es) (required):

## Signature(s) (required):

## Date of submission (required):  

----

# Thank you!

Commit message:

Minor-CLA-form-update-1
Added table for Contributor details

static/CLA/CLAform.md, after:

---
title: CONTRIBUTOR LICENSE AGREEMENT FORM
layout: page
---

# OpenWIS Association Contributor License Agreement - version 3 (CLAv3)

By completing and submitting this form, you confirm that you have read, understood and accept the current version of the [Contributor License Agreement]({{ "/rules/A-contributor-license-agreement.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}), [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}), [Technical Rules]({{ "/tr/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) and [Code of Conduct]({{ "/conduct/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) of the OpenWIS Association AISBL and the policies and procedures defined by the [OpenWIS Steering Committee]( {{"/structure/steering-committee.html" | prepend: site.baseurl}} ).  If required, please contact the OpenWIS Community Manager via [email](mailto:contact@openwis.io) for further clarification or help.

If you are submitting this form on behalf of an organisation, please include the names, GitHub IDs, email addresses and signatures of all contributors.

Please submit a scan of this completed form to the OpenWIS Community Manager via [email](mailto:contact@openwis.io)

----

#### For contributions to (OpenWIS Association project(s) - required):

#### Current project license (required):

#### Organisation (if applicable):

### Please enter details of each Contributor in the table below (required):

full name of contributor | GitHub ID of contributor | email address | signature of contributor
---|---|---|---
 | | |
 | | |
 | | |
 | | |
 | | |
 | | |
 | | |
 | | |
 | | |
 | | |

#### Date of submission (required):  

----

# Thank you!
