---
layout: page
title: Agenda - OpenWIS Steering Committee 2017 December
minuteOwner: steering
---

#### 7th December 2017

---

(The responsibilities of the Steering Committee [SC] are described in Article 13)

1. **Welcome, introductions and approval of agenda**
    - SC Chair
2. **Approve previous SC meeting minutes**
    - SC Chair
    - [OpenWIS Steering Committee 2017 October minutes]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/minutes/2017-10-09-OpenWIS-Steering-Committee-2017-Oct.html)
3. **Clarification of organisational roles within OpenWIS Association**
    - JT
    - [Action-SC-2017-14 Improve processes for managing new projects](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/185) *“In light of the discussion around new projects during SC-MAR2017 (eg: FMI's [smartmet](https://github.com/fmidev/)) and the uncertainties this has surfaced around the roles of PMC/TC/SC, review the Articles, Internal Rules and Technical Rules and propose any improvements.”*
    - [Action-SC-2016-14 Add new risks to Risk Register](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/170) *“Add a risk to the Risk Register stating that the Articles/Rules of the Association do not adequately define the architecture role of the TC (Article 14.1)”*
    - Note: **Resolution-AM-2016-09** approving "edits to describe governance for multiple projects"
    - See [OpenWIS Project Governance Rules Supplement]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/rules2/2016-03-11-OpenWIS-Project-Governance.html)  and [PMC structure diagram]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/assets/ATT-OWIS-SC-2016-7_owis-committee-structure.pdf)
    - Propose update to [Internal Rules Title 7]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/rules/7-management-structure-and-qualification-of-officers.html) based on responsibilties outlined [here](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/185#issuecomment-335121087)
4. **Election of Vice-Chair of Technical Committee**
    1. SC Chair - The nominations received are as follows:
        1. 1 nomination - Benjamin Saclier, Meteo-France.
5. **Completion of Contributor License Agreements (CLA)**
    1. SC Chair - We still need to complete the [review of CLA, form and process](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/98) so that we can all do [Action-SC-2017-19 Submit completed CLA forms](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/190). At the moment the action lies with NWS:
        - KS - [Action-SC-2017-70 Complete the legal review of the CLA](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/331)
6. **Update on new Partners**
    1. RGr - European Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting (ECMWF) (Associate Partner)
        - [Action-SC-2017-07 Finalise the ECMWF agreement](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/178)
        - [Action-SC-2017-09 Clarify ECMWF taxes](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/180)
        - [Action-BM-2017-08 Discuss new proposals with ECMWF Legal](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/290)
        - [Action-BM-2017-09 Ask RMI for advice on VAT](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/291)
        - [Action-BM-2017-10 Try VAT status enquiry with our Belgian Lawyers](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/292)
    2. RGr - India Meteorological Department (IMD) (Strategic Partner)
        - [Action-SC-2017-65 Contact IMD for an update on progress with the partner agreement](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/326)
    3. MDA - Any others
7. **New Projects**
    1. JT - OpenWIS Djibouti - WIS 2.0 pilot for demo at TECO
        - See [Action-SC-2017-16 Project Charter for WIS 2.0](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/187)
        - See new project repository: [djibouti](https://github.com/OpenWIS/djibouti)
    2. JT - OpenWeather - Common Weather API
        - See project proposal paper at: [Action-SC-2017-17 Project Charter for Weather API](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/188)
        - [User demo](http://labs.metoffice.gov.uk/map/owdemo/)
        - [Admin demo](http://labs.metoffice.gov.uk/map/owdemo/admin.html)
8. **OpenWIS Technical Workplan**
    1. TC Chair - [Action-SC-2017-58 Create a roadmap for OpenWIS-Core](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/282)
9. **Risk Management**
    1. PR - Proposed risk management process
        - [Action-BM-2017-03 Draft Risk Register for Association](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/227)
        - [Example Risk Register](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/projects/4)
        - [Action-SC-2017-20 Risks to the Association](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/191)
10. **Goals for the Association**
    1. SC Chair - [Action-SC-2017-45 Goals for the Association](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/216)
11. **Entry into International Yearbook**
    1. SC Chair - [Entry into International Yearbook](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/338)
12. **Outstanding Actions**
    1. SC Chair
        - MDA - [Action-SC-2017-34 Promotion at WMO Exec Council 2018](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/205)
        - RGr - [Action-SC-2017-51 Money transfer tax](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/222)
        - SO - [Action-SC-2017-57 Reword the text of the TC Briefing to the SC](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/281)
        - SH - [Action-BM-2017-13 Check that UKMO could bill the Assoc for work](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/295)
        - JT - [Action-BM-2017-14 Define the mechanisms/rules for financial support of projects](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/296)
13. **Any Other Business**
    - SC Chair
14. **Next meeting**
    - SC Chair
15. **Summary of recommendations to the Board**
	  - SC Chair
16. **Closure of the meeting**
	  - SC Chair

---
