---
layout: page
title: Agenda - OpenWIS Steering Committee 2017 October - teleconference
minuteOwner: steering
---

#### 9th October 2017

---

(The responsibilities of the Steering Committee [SC] are described in Article 13)

1. **Welcome, introductions and approval of agenda**
    - SC Chair
2. **Approve previous SC meeting minutes** 
    - SC Chair
    - [OpenWIS Steering Committee 2017 June minutes]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/minutes/2017-06-29-OpenWIS-Steering-Committee-2017-Jun.html)
3. **Clarification of organisational roles within OpenWIS Association** 
    - SC Chair
    - [Action-SC-2017-14 Improve processes for managing new projects](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/185) *“In light of the discussion around new projects during SC-MAR2017 (eg: FMI's [smartmet](https://github.com/fmidev/)) and the uncertainties this has surfaced around the roles of PMC/TC/SC, review the Articles, Internal Rules and Technical Rules and propose any improvements.”*
    - [Action-SC-2016-14 Add new risks to Risk Register](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/170) *“Add a risk to the Risk Register stating that the Articles/Rules of the Association do not adequately define the architecture role of the TC (Article 14.1)”*
    - Note: **Resolution-AM-2016-09** approving "edits to describe governance for multiple projects"
    - See [OpenWIS Project Governance Rules Supplement]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/rules2/2016-03-11-OpenWIS-Project-Governance.html)  [PMC structure diagram]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/assets/ATT-OWIS-SC-2016-7_owis-committee-structure.pdf)
    - Propose update to [Internal Rules Title 7]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/rules/7-management-structure-and-qualification-of-officers.html) based on responsibilties outlined [here](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/185#issuecomment-335121087)
4. **OpenWIS Technical Workplan**
    - TC Chair
    - OpenWIS-Core
        - Version 3 in *maintenance mode*
    - WIS 2.0 pilot projects
        - Discussion of Pilot Projects selected by Technical Committee
        - Allocation of PMC roles? Definition of Charter(s)?
        - Stand-alone implementations?
        - Can we deliver a working demonstration for WMO CBS TECO (March 2018)
        - Financial allocation of OpenWIS funds
            - [Action-BM-2017-14 Define the mechanisms/rules for financial support of Projects](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/296)
5. **Review new Project Charters**
    - SmartMet (Mikko Visa) 
        - See [Action-SC-2017-15 smartmet project proposal](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/186) *“Work with the TC to determine how the smartmet project might operate within the Association in practical terms (eg: where should repos be, how would PMC work etc). Draft a Project Charter and report back to SC in June.”*
    - WIS 2.0 (Kari Sheets) 
        - See [Action-SC-2017-16 Project Charter for WIS 2.0](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/187) 
        - *Discussion*: does the proposal for OpenWIS Core 5.0 (re OpenWIS Core work plan) subsume the WIS2.0 Project Charter? Can we retrofit a Charter to the existing OpenWIS Core project, e.g. to help formally clarify the split in responsibilities for PMC and TC?
        - *Discussion*: designation of OpenWIS Core 5.0 / WIS 2.0 as a WMO/CBS Affiliated Project
    - Weather API / OpenWeather (Jeremy Tandy)
        - See [Action-SC-2017-17 Project Charter for Weather API](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/188)
6. **Uodate on new Partners**
    - ECMWF (Associate Partner)
        - [Action-SC-2017-07 Finalise the ECMWF agreement](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/178)
        - [Action-SC-2017-09 Clarify ECMWF taxes](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/180)
        - [Action-BM-2017-09 Ask RMI for advice on VAT](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/291)
        - [Action-BM-2017-10 Try VAT status enquiry with our Belgian Lawyers](292)
        - Belgian lawyer instructed to investigate VAT issues
        - *Informally, Baudouin Raoult suggests that VAT is not payable on subscriptions - only goods and services*
    - IMD (Strategic Partner)
        - [Action-BM-2017-09 Draft response letter to IMD](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/294) clarifying that they are not paying for software support
    - CMA
7. **Any Other Business**
    - Financial matters - bank account
    - Financial matters - invoices to Météo France
    - Risks to the Association
        - [Action-SC-2017-20 Risks to the Association](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/191)
    - Goals of the Association
        - [Action-SC-2017-45 Goals for the Association](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/216) “Each SC delegate should propose 3 goals for the Association (not the OpenWIS-Core project)"
    - Pending issues
        - [Action-SC-2016-13 Seek legal advice on shelter from litigation](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/171)
        - [Action-SC-2017-19 Submit completed CLA forms](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/190)
8. **Next meeting** 
    - SC Chair
    - Propose next SC teleconference in December 2017 
9. **Summary of recommendations to the Board**
	  - SC Chair
10. **Closure of the meeting**
	  - SC Chair
---
