---
layout: page
title: OpenWIS Steering Committee 2018 August
minuteOwner: steering
---

#### 18th August 2018 - via WebEx teleconference

**Attendance and proxies**
The attendees and proxies for this meeting via tele-conference were:
- Jeremy Tandy (JT), Met Office (UKMO) - SC Chair
- Rémy Giraud (RGr), Météo France (MF) - SC Vice-Chair
- Stacey Harvey (SH), Met Office (UKMO) – OpenWIS Association Treasurer
- Rémy Gibault (RGb), representing Météo-France International [MFI] with authority from  Loïc Le  
  Gallou(LG) of Météo France International (MFI)
- Weiqing Qu (WQ), Bureau of Meteorology (BoM)
- Sungsoo Do (SD), Korea Meteorological Administration (KMA)
- Steve Olson (SO) representing National Weather Service (NWS) with authority from Kari Sheets (KS)   
  of the National Weather Service (NWS)
- Mikko Visa (MV), Finnish Meteorological Institute (FMI)
- Kuldeep Srivastava (KS) India Meteorological Department (IMD)
- Dr. S.L. Singh (SS) India Meteorological Department (IMD)

1.**Minutes and actions from the previous meeting**
- All attendees agreed that no changes or additions were needed to the minutes of the previous meeting.

2.**Introduction from IMD – new strategic partner**
- JT handed the floor to RGr to introduce IMD.
- RGr – I am glad that we have a new member and glad to be working on exciting proposals that will help the OpenWIS Association grow.
- IMD representatives were unable to respond due to problems they were experiencing with their WebEx connection.

3.**Outstanding and due actions:**
- All attendees agreed that recording actions and their progress in GitHub was working OK and should continue.

  *From last SC*

  a.	[SC-2018-2 support cache in the cloud](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/406)
  - RGr – JMA are developing a system that is to be hosted solely within JMA, i.e. not in the cloud.
  - JT - The decision recorded at the WMO Executive Council 70 (EC-70) meeting did not mention shared services.  
  - RGr - There was opposition from JMA, DWD and Russia.
  - JT - The shared service aspect still holds.
  - WQ – Does the CBS standing still valid?
  - JT - WIS2 is still under consideration but will be more complicated to gain agreement on.
  - JT – Is there support for a separate discussion on WIS2 as it is not on this agenda?
  - WQ – Not at present.
  - JT – ET WIS will informed about WIS2 information.

  b.	[SC-2018-7 set up a register of obligations to the Belgian Authorities Steering Committee](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/411)
  - RGr – This is in progress.  RGr to update on issues and time-scales. It is estimated that 3 months are needed to complete the work.

  c.	[SC-2018-9 raise an invoice of 10,000 Euros for ECMWF Associate Partner fees Steering Committee](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/413)
  - Agreed to discuss this action as part of agenda item 6 - the OpenWIS Association’s bank account.

  d.	[SC-2018-10 clarify 'in kind' position of UKMO re Amazon Web Services (AWS)](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/414)
  - JT –  the UK Met Office is content to keep paying the AWS costs at this current rate (EUR 2k / year).

  e.	[SC-2018-11 check costs due from historic work to prepare annual accounts Steering Committee](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/416)
  -  RGr - No progress.  Work is in progress to complete accounts for last year, the costs of which are usually around 800 euros per annum, will check with Vincent Corbeel and provide an update in September 2018.

  f.	[SC-2018-16 update the 'stronger together' presentation](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/421)
  - RGr – No response from Mattéo Dell’Acqua, I expect to get a response in September or October 2018

  g.	[SC-2018-23 update the “responsibilities” rule supplement and the “Project Initiation” PowerPoint slide](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/430)
  - JT – a Pull Request is being has been prepared to make the change.  All agreed that this Pull Request should be applied.

  h.	[SC-2018-24 update the “responsibilities” rule supplement and the “Project Operation” PowerPoint slide](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/431)  
  - JT – a Pull Request is being has been prepared to make the change.  All agreed that this Pull Request should be applied.

  i.	[SC-2018-25 update “responsibilities” rule supplement Steering Committee](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/432)
  - JT – a Pull Request is being has been prepared to make the change.  All agreed that this Pull Request should be applied.

  j.	[SC-2018-26 update “responsibilities” rule supplement](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/433)
  - JT – a Pull Request is being has been prepared to make the change.  All agreed that this Pull Request should be applied.

  k.	[SC-2018-27 update the “allocation of funds” PowerPoint slide](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/434)
  - JT – a Pull Request is being has been prepared to make the change.  All agreed that this Pull Request should be applied.

*From last Board*

  l.	[Latest correspondence from potential new partners to be send to new President](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/443)
  - RGr – No correspondence from potential new partners.  However, we do have a new strategic partner – IMD.
    China – will try to meet at TT EWIS.  
    DWD and Canada – Waiting for Project Charter for AMQP to be approved to contact DWD and China as they are have an interest in AMQP; this may be a reason for them to be part of this consortium.

  m.	[BM-2018-4 Check amount of invoice due to ECMWF](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/415)
  - It was agreed that 10k Euros is the correct amount to be invoiced to ECMWF as ECMWF actually joined in 2018. Therefore, the action is complete.

  n.	[BM-2018-3 Establish Belgian Authority requirements for change of President Board Meeting](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/404)
  - This is complete.  The work was carried out via Vincent Corbeel.  The costs are 1000 euros.

  o.		[BM-2018-2 New president to introduce himself to IMD](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/403)
  - This is complete as IMD are now a new strategic partner.

  p.	[BM-2018-1 Establish IMD situation](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/402)
  - This is complete as IMD are now a new strategic partner.

  q.		[RISK-000002 Compliance failures - carry out agreed mitigation](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/334)
  - The action for this is in progress.  Please see response to item 3b, above.

4.**Project Charters for WIS2:**

  a.	[Action-SC-2018-35 create project charter for future of metadata formatsMetadata formats](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/469)
  - JT – The work is intended to commence in January 2019.  Therefore, the Charter should be postponed until near that time.
  - All agreed to this approach.

  b.	[Action-SC-2018-31 - create project charter for schema.org studySchema.org](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/439)
  - JT gave an overview of the proposal as set out in GitHub.
  - JT - Is there any suggestions or feedback on the proposal?
  - SO - Need a consistent approach to the content of the Project Charter – a template.
  - JT - JA to create a template to enable consistency.
  - RGr - need to clarify time-scales of tender, what is to be delivered and budget required.
  - JT – Will update proposal.  Funding will be from OpenWIS Association.  The UK Met Office will lead this activity, member are invited to review documents.
  - JT - Please add any comments to the issue in GitHub.
    [ACTION SC-2018-36 Develop template for Project Charters](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/499)

  c.	[Action-SC-2018-32 create project charter for AMQP](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/440)
  - RGr gave an overview of the proposal.
  - JT - this is consistent with the discussions in Helsinki.
  - RGr – David Podeur has already started working on this.  Is there is another partner interested being the ‘client’ to receive data?
  - SO – There are some touchpoints with the Trust Model, so we are happy to link up.
  - RGr- Who is contact person, please?
  - SO – I will put you in touch with the contact point.
    [ACTION SC-2018-37 Provide NWS contact regarding the AMQP work](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/500)

  - JT – As a point of process, are we all happy with this approach?
  - All – yes.
  - JT – With all Project Charters, we seek approval by SC. Therefore, if there are no concerns this is the recommendation to the Board.
  - SH – We need to confirm the funding source, i.e. whether from the OpenWIS Association or in-kind contributions.
  - JT - Yes
  - RGr - JA to work on this as part of the Project Charter template.
  - JT - We also need to agree the sponsors.  Therefore, to clarify for Scheme.org, the UK Met Office is the sponsor.  Is there anyone else interested?
    [ACTION SC-2018-38 Ensure that the Project Charter Template indicates the source of funding](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/501)

  - RGr - MF need to check.
  - JT - By default, expecting review and feedback.
    [ACTION SC-2018-39 Feedback on all Project Charters within two weeks](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/502)

  d.	[Action-SC-2018-33 create project charter for trust modelTrust Model](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/441)
  - SO gave a high-level introduction and overview of the Project Charter.
  - JT - how has the time-scales been defined?
  - SO - Assumptions made
  - JT - Is the work to be done by a third party?
  - SO - Yes
  - JT – So we only need start and end dates.
    [ACTION SC-2018-40 Identify procurement support required for all study Project Charters](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/503)

e.		[Action-SC-2018-30 create project charter re INSPIRE and OGC](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/438)
  - MV gave an overview of the current position, i.e. expecting updates and responses from Expert meeting and will give an update at the next SC.  No funding is required; the work will be benefit –in-kind.
  - JT – Any comments
  - All – No comments.  
    [ACTION SC-2018-41 Give and update on the INSPIRE and OGC Project Charter](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/504)


5.**[OpenWIS 3.x - Governance for maintaining operational software until 2024](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/497)**
  - JA gave an overview of the proposal and the need to decide what type of governance is needed for OpenWIS 3x as there is no active development going forward, only maintenance and fixing of bugs.  There are three options – manage as a development project; manage with minimal governance, or manage work informally as fixes and patching is needed.  The recommendation is to discuss the best option at the next TC.
  [ACTION SC-2018-42 Ensure the OpenWIS 3x governance is on the agenda of the next TC](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/505)

6.**OpenWIS Association bank account**
  - RGr - The transfer of the bank account from MFI to ING bank is not yet completed.  In the light of the complexity so far, an alternative solution is being explored.
  It was agreed that RGr would ask MFI President whether MFI is happy to continue with the current bank account in the meantime.  
  [ACTION SC-2018-43 Establish whether MFI are able to continue to operate the bank account](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/506)

  - It was agreed to wait until the position regarding bank accounts is finalised before issuing an invoice to IMD.  
  - It was agreed that 10k Euros is the correct amount to be invoiced to ECMWF as ECMWF actually joined in 2018 and that the invoice should be paid into the MFI bank account as the position with the ING bank is being progressed.
  [ACTION SC-2018-44 Email Rémy Gibault to get the MFI bank details in order to invoice ECMWF](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/507)

7.**Use of DropBox for storing CLAs and VAT documents**
  [Action-SC-2018-18 place VAT documents in DropBox for Business](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/424)
  [Action-TC-2018-20 check CLA process with paul rogers](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/457)

  - JA stated that the original reason for requesting DropBox was for storing completed CLA forms.  
    However, a process for this already exists which uses GitHub.  There is wider issue to understand how the OpenWIS Association needs to manage personal information for GDPR, commercial confidentiality and other legal requirements.  The UK Met Office is looking into this and it would be good to review the need for using Dropbox once this legal assessment is available.  It is expected in early September 2018.

  - JT - It is possible to secure repositories in GitHub and it is good to store all information in one place.  So, depending on the outcome of the legal advice GitHub may be suitable

  - All agreed with the approach to get legal advice first.

8.**Next annual meeting**
  [Action-SC-2018-15 next annual meeting](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/420)**
  - JT - Is NWS able to host the annual meeting?
  - SO - Absolutely.  Discussions are in progress on the specific venue, likely to be Springfield’s, and, the likely dates are March or early April 2019.
  [ACTION SC-2018-45 Circulate dates to gauge availability for delegates for the 2019 annual meeting](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/508)

9.**Risks**
  [Action-SC-2018-8 update the risk log](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/412)  
    Risk log is here - (https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/projects/4)
  - JT – The risks have been updated.  Please take a look a feedback
  - All – no comments

10.**AOB**
    - SH – I am expecting a baby in February 2019.  Therefore, unable to carry on being the Treasurer of the OpenWIS Association.  I am looking at options within my Department but it is unlikely to be result in finding a replacement for me.  Therefore, there is a need to explore whether a Treasurer can be found from one of the partners.
    - SH – This could be MFI, which could make managing the bank account easier
    - RGb – I will check within MFI and respond by early September 2018.
    [ACTION SC-2018-46 Confirm whether MFI can provide a Treasurer](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/509)


11.**Next SC meeting**
    [Action-SC-2018-13 schedule SC meetings quarterly](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/418)
    - It was agreed that the next SC should be in October 2018.
