---
layout: page
title: OpenWIS Steering Committee 2019 December
minuteOwner: steering
---

#### - 16th December 2019 - Webex tele-conference

---

**1. Welcome and introductions**
  *1.1 Attendees:*
  - Rémy Giraud (RGr), Météo France [MF] - SC Chair
  - Benjamin Saclier (BS), Météo France [MF]
  - Loïc Le Gallou (LG), Météo France International [MFI]
  - Sungsoo Do (SD), Korea Meteorological Administration [KMA]
  - Kwangjae Lee (KL), Korea Meteorological Administration [KMA]
  - Kari Sheets (KS), National Weather Service [NWS]
  - Steve Olson (SO), National Weather Service [NWS]
  - Weiqing Qu (WQ), Bureau of Meteorology (BoM)
  - Stephan Siemen (SS), European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts [ECMWF]
  - Jude Anthonisz (JA), OpenWIS Association Secretariat
  - Steve Palmer, Met Office [UKMO]

  *1.2 Apologies:*
  - Mikko Visa, Finnish Meteorological Institute [FMI]
  - Dr. S.L. Singh (SLS), India Meteorological Department [IMD]
  - Jeremy Tandy, Met Office [UKMO] - SC Vice-Chair

**2. Approval of the agenda**
  - The agenda was approved by all.

**3. Approval of previous minutes**
  - The minutes of the meeting on 22 May 2019 were approved by all.

**4. Project Reports (for existing active project) and requests for financial support or changes to existing Charters**

*4.1 OpenWIS 3.x [https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/497]*
  4.1.1 CICD environment (Highlights and any support required)
  - SO – gave the following update:
	- Kick-off meeting took place two weeks ago with the latest project team meeting on 11 December 2019.  The revised plan and schedule and roles and responsibilities agreed at these meetings
  - Progress made in confirming Association team members.
  - The next project meeting is on 7 January 2020.
  - Training event for Association member representatives will be in Toulouse on 3 and 4 March 2020.  
  - In summary, all things are on track at present.
  - Thanks to all in work done to date in getting the RFP and procurement complete.

  - SO - In addition to the CICD, the RFP for middleware has been prepared and agreed, led  by BS and SO.  Key issue is confirming the Association’s the legal position regarding the procurement route.
	- RGr - Are ED confident about finishing by agreed training date?
  - SO - Yes. Current ED plans indicate a finish by end February 2020.

  4.1.2 Middleware [legal position regarding procurement options [https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/557]
  - RGr - Unable to give a definitive response yet, as lawyers initially contacted are tax experts, awaiting response and will chase and expect a response in early January 2020.

  4.1.3	Middleware - which partner organisation will act on behalf of the Association for full procurement and contract life cycle? [https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/557}
  - RGr -  Unable to determine this until the legal advice (see 4.1.2) is confirmed.

  4.1.4	Middleware - Indicative budget (via no obligation quote(s) received) 
  - RGr - will discuss this when legal position (i.e. 4.1.2) is known then budget will be discussed, with a target time-scale for resolution by mid-February 2020.

*4.2 AMQP [https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/440]*

  4.2.1	AMQP workshop - date, duration, and location of workshop (can this coincide with 4.1.1 and 8.1?)
	- RGr - this is officially going to be called the pub-sub workshop.  MF feel that AMQP v1 is OK for itself.  However, for WIS2 a wider consideration and discussion would be useful.
	- RGr - At present WMO are re-structuring, so no support by WMO will be offered.
  - RGr - At present the Pub Sub workshop is scheduled to be at the same week as as the CICD training event in early March.  The OpenWIS annual meetings are planned for late May in BoM (Melbourne).
  - RGr - I prefer to keep to this time-table as capacity not available and for Association management purposes, there is a need for a period of 12 months elapsed time.
	- SO - Agree to keep separate, too as there is much going on CICD as well AMQP.
  - RGr - Any other views or opposition? WQ, are you able to join if the Annual meeting is in Toulouse?
  - WQ - Assume not for planning purposes.
  - RGr - Any other options or views?
  - RGb/LL - For MF and MFI better if the Annual meeting is in Toulouse.
  - RGr - For the OpenWIS community, it is better to keep the meetings separate.
  - WQ - The Annual Meeting dates are confirmed dates as 25-28 May 2020 for 4 days.
  - RGr - I will send confirmation email to Association members.

**5.  Review new proposals for projects that are compatible with the purpose and objectives of the OpenWIS Association and in the interest of Members and Partners**

*5.1 [OpenCDMS Charter](https://github.com/opencdms/opencdms-project/blob/master/charteropencdms_charter.mdkey) - Key points and approval decision and next steps (Steve Palmer presenting) )*

- RGr introduced the OpenCDS background:
  - This activity has been ongoing for a number of years. It includes the development of the opencdms specifications, which is now an official WMO document.
  - Currently there is a difference in view of the approach and direction to the work within various project teams.  
  -	I hope that there is a way of reconciling both options / views.  
  -	Therefore, I am organising an event with all members of the OpenCDMS team to with the aim to get a consensus on a preferred approach.

- RGr handed the floor to SP to introduce one approach for this meeting.

- SP mentioned the following:
  - Work on OpenCDMS has been going for a number of years and there is a need have an institutional owner of this work and agree licencing arrangements.
  - AISBL is a live institution working WMO initiatives as has processes in place for CLAs and therefore a logical choice for OpenCDMS.

- RGr - No questions or queries?

- RGr - options for AISBL are:
  - Agree to adopt OpenCDMS in current status and form
  - Agree not adopt OpenCDMS.
  - Give the opportunity for exploring the alternative approach for the OpenCDMS work from the other OpenCDMS representative.

- RGr - My preferred way forward is to give an opportunity to facilitate agreement of the preferred approach within the OpenCDMS project. So, a meeting is set on 30  January 2020 with the relevant parties.

- SP- BoM have expressed interest and support.
- WQ - Who specifically in BoM.
- SP - I will confirm the person.
- RGb - What are the funding sources?
- SP - WMO and UKMO VCP

- RGr - the risk is minimal. Being part of AISBL can potentially be good to attract funding

- All - agreed discuss a potential alternative approach with other OpenCDMS team member in late January 2020 before accepting hosting of OpenCDMS within AISBL.

**6.0	Recommendations to the Board regarding new or amended Projects**  
- RGr - Agreed in principle  to adopt OpenCDMS, but will be confirmed after the meeting with key OpenCDMS representatives on 30 January 2020. A postal vote will then be organised with the Openwis SC to confirm by mid-February 2020 to the OpenCDMS team the outcome of the request.


**[7. Review of Strategic Goals and Metrics (3-year horizon) [metrics]](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/442)**
- RGr - The 3 goals proposed at the last annual meeting are still relevant and work on CICD, Middleware and AMQP reflect metrics for goals 1 and 3.  Goal 2 is also relevant and agreement in principle to OpenCDMS could once confirmed form relevant metrics.

**8.  OpenWIS Association Logistics**
[8.1	Can the Annual meeting beheld to coincide with the location of 4.1.1 and 4.2.1) to save excessive of travel](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/558)
- Please see 4.1.1, above.

**9.	[Risk review and development of mitigation plans](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/555) and (https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/projects/4)**
- JA - highlighted the risks resourcing/capacity risk (risk000003) was emerging due to the multiple strands of work (I.e. CICD, Middleware, OpenCDMS, and Annual meeting).
- RGr and All  - Agreed to keep the risk evaluation unchanged as although prioritising CICD and  AMQP until March 2020 and keeping the Annual meeting in late May 2020 helps reduce continuity issues, the implications of middleware procurement and OpenCDMS is not yet known.
- JA - the other risk that warrants a discussion is compliance failure risk000002)
- RGr - Given the progress of GDPR #459 , Trademark #247 , and creation of a list of Belgian Authority #411 obligations, this risk could be Amber or Green, you can decide.
- JA - Agreed to keep at Amber at present, as need get a position on the retention of non-personal data #552.
- All - agreed.
- JA - Any other exiting exists or new risks?
- All - No.

**10.	Key Outstanding actions:**
- [A number of actions remaining unclosed that could easily be closed subject to agreement  (full list of actions](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues?page=1&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Steering+Committee%22)

- The key and substantive items that are not already on the agenda are:

*[10.1	Update the Articles of Association](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/553)*
- RGr - draft submitted not received any comment from Board.
- RGr – I will send a reminder to Board get confirmation.  
- RGr – the aim is to get the Articles finalised by May 2020.  

*[10.2	Retention policy for non-personal date](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/552)*
- No update.  JA to check with JT on progress and next steps

*[10.3	List of obligation to Belgian Authorities](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/411)*
- RGr - A French version is available.
- JA - Need to consider whether an English Translation is needed.
- RGr – Sufficient in French as Nathalie and Vincent can understand it.  
- All – agreed.

*[10.4	Trademark fees (this is a Board item](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/247)*
- RGr - Finished transfer of OpenWiS. Therefore, AISBL is the full owner of the ‘OpenWIS’ trademark.  
- RGr - MF have been helpful and pay MF for transfer of trademark get confirmation of duration for renewal.
- RGr – to check and confirm date of renewal.

**11.	Next meeting**
Agreed that the next SC is needed in March 2020 to confirm finalisation of the Articles of Association; confirm completion of CICD work; and get the latest position and agree the way forward  on Middleware.  

**12.	Any other business**
- None.

**13.	Summary of recommendations to the Board**
- None.  

**14.	Closure of the meeting**
