<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">

  <head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">

  <title>OpenWIS Action Tracker 2017 January</title>
  <meta name="description" content="">


  <link rel="canonical" href="http://openwis.github.io/openwis-documentation/minutes/2017-01-11-OpenWIS-Action-Tracker-2017-Jan.html">
  <link rel="alternate" type="application/rss+xml" title="OpenWIS Association AISBL" href="http://openwis.github.io/openwis-documentation/feed.xml">
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="/openwis-documentation/css/main.css">
  <link rel="shortcut icon" href="/openwis-documentation/favicon.ico?r=31241">
  <link rel="icon" href="/openwis-documentation/favicon.ico?r=31241">

</head>


  <body>

    <header class="site-header">

  <div class="wrapper">

    <div class="site-banner"><span class="site-title"><img src="/openwis-documentation/assets/openwis.jpg" alt="OpenWIS®" style="max-height:40px; width:auto"/><a href="/openwis-documentation/">OpenWIS Association AISBL</a></span></div>


    <nav class="site-nav">
      <div class="trigger">
	 <a class="page-link" href="/openwis-documentation/">Home</a>      
         <div class="page-link">
            <ul class="dropdown"><label for="a1"><a href="/openwis-documentation/about/">Association</a></label><input id="a1" type="checkbox">
                  <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/structure/members.html">Members</a></li>
	          <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/structure/governance.html">Governance</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/articles/">Articles of Association</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/rules/">Internal Rules</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/conduct/">Code of Conduct</a></li> 
                  <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/tr/">Technical Rules</a></li>
		  <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/rules2/">Rules Supplements</a></li>
                  <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/minutes/">Meetings Minutes and Notes</a></li> 
                  <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/metrics/">Goals</a></li> 
            </ul>
         </div>
         <div class="page-link">
            <ul class="dropdown"><label for="p1"><a href="/openwis-documentation/projects/">Projects</a></label><input id="p1" type="checkbox">
               <li><ul class="dropdown"><label for="p21"><a href="/openwis-documentation/projects/openwis/">OpenWIS</a></label><input id="p21" type="checkbox" checked>
		     <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/backlog/">Backlog</a></li>
                     <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/kanban/">Kanban</a></li>
		     <li><a href="https://openwis.github.io/openwis" target="_blank">Github Development*</a></li>
                     <li><a href="https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis" target="_blank">Github Repository*</a><li>
                     <li><a href="https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis/wiki" target="_blank">Wiki*</a></li>
                     <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/projects/openwis/#download">Download</a></li>
               </ul></li>
               <li><ul class="dropdown"><label for="p22"><a href="/openwis-documentation/projects/excel2wis/">Excel2wis Tool</a></label><input id="p22" type="checkbox" checked>
	          <li><a href="https://github.com/OpenWIS/excel2wis" target="_blank">Excel2wis github repository</a></li>
	       </ul></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
         <a class="page-link" href="mailto: contact@openwis.io">Contact</a>
         <div class="page-link">
            <ul class="dropdown"><label for="i1">Get Involved</label><input id="i1" type="checkbox">
                <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/structure/steering-committee.html">Steering Committee</a></li>
                <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/structure/technical-committee.html">Technical Committee</a></li>
                <li class="no-link">Developers</li>
		<li><a href="/openwis-documentation/howto/">How-to Instructions</a></li>
                <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/posts/">Github Posts Archive</a></li>
		<li><a href="https://www.openwis.io/cms/forum" target="_blank">Forum*</a></li>
            </ul>
         </div>          
         
      </div>
    </nav>

  </div>

</header>


    <div class="page-content">
      <div class="wrapper">
        <article class="post">
	<header class="post-header">
		<h1 class="post-title">OpenWIS Action Tracker 2017 January</h1>
	</header>

	<div class="post-content">
		<hr />

<h3 id="actions-open-at-11th-january-2017">Actions open at 11th January 2017</h3>

<h4 id="developer-conference-2016-dc">Developer Conference 2016 (DC)</h4>

<ul>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-DC-2016-01: LM - Creation of video on the build process</li>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-DC-2016-05: PR - Have full sponsor’s Legal review CLA agreement and comment</li>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-DC-2016-07: RG - Administration of Open Mailing list. Probably need to have one administrators of this list</li>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-DC-2016-10: DW - Work with Geonetwork in understanding users and groups within GN3. These apply to metadata records. Can something similar be created for data?</li>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-DC-2016-11: LM - General examination of extended JBOSS capabilities for portals) (Action: Entire Team, led by Leon)</li>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-DC-2016-13: LM - Examination of using GN3 LDAP for user accounts. Work to understand is how to shoehorn user permissions and groups to data as well as metadata, and the application of this to cache.</li>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-DC-2016-15: LM - Examination of the use of message queues. This won’t happen in the initial 4.0 release, but occur downstream (Action: Entire Development Team)</li>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-DC-2016-17: MC - Update OpenDJ/OpenAM scripts for deployment</li>
</ul>

<h4 id="technical-committee-tc">Technical Committee (TC)</h4>

<ul>
  <li>Dec <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-58: PR - Share proposal on development process improvements by end of January. </span></li>
  <li>Dec <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-59: All - review OpenWIS v4.0 and provide the feedback as GitHub Issues within the OpenWIS4 repository. </span></li>
  <li>Dec <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-60: PR - Add a Kanban task for this review. </span></li>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-46: LM - Circulate the url of the portal on Proxmox. </span></li>
  <li>Jul <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-44: RG - Will send round an email with the team contact email address. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-25: WQ - TC to set a task to develop onboarding docs set for developers. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-23: JT - Include the requirement for the Security Service to control data access in the Data Policy workpackage. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-22: RGr - Create a work package to review Data Policy and Access Control implications in detail. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-21: RGb - Investigate how to link the data policy in the metadata with the assignment of GeoNetwork privileges. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-20: JT - Create a work package for WMO metadata guidance templates. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-19: BB - Ask Simon Pigot for an update. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-18: JT - Create work package on UI improvement for bulk subs. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-15: RGb: draft a User Story for the User Portal subscription process. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-13: WQ - document the design pattern policy; still deploy to wildfly in short/medium term. </span></li>
</ul>

<h4 id="steering-committee-sc">Steering Committee (SC)</h4>

<ul>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-32: EE - Check with Michael Robbins for fees related to trademarks. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-31: BB - Will help develop a value proposition.  But I’m not ideal; people in WMO have that experience, so I will ask around to see if I can identify the right</li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-30: JT - Let’s put targeted communications on the agenda for the next SC meeting. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-29: OL - Come up with an appropriate name. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-28: JT - To write a strategy paper on: Where we can deliver the most value for the broader community in the near future. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-26: RGib - Provide to the Association the feedback received so far from users to TC and SC. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-24: LLG – Clarify in the communications plan. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-23: RGib - email info about who is using OpenWIS to both TC and SC. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-21: JT/PR - Work with Michael to determine legal validity in all territories of a click-through online CLA - and validity under Belgian law.  Refer to legal contact of IRM? </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-20: JT/PR - Talk to Michael Robbins about whether an umbrella agreement would have legal standing. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-19: RGir - Investigate appetite for a project proposal with DWD. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-18: MDA - Find out if NMS Canada is interested in bringing MetPX under the OpenWIS umbrella. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-17: WQ - To do a project proposal relating an investigation work package for the OpenWIS Core. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-16: JT - Clarify articles that may appear to force other people to pay for your project.</li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-15: WQ(TC) - Define the roles in the development process - see JT doc. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-14: PR - RISK for Board Risk Register - That the articles of the Association are not fit for purpose regarding, particularly:
    <ul>
      <li>Article 14.1 Architecture role of TC,</li>
      <li>Article 9.1 No mention of contributors,</li>
      <li>Article 21.2 Indemnity of partners and contributors. </span></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-13: JT (through Michael Robbins) get legal advice on whether the articles shelter the contributors from litigation. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-12: JT - Make sure the role of User is clear in the internal rules. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-10: JT - As part of going open source we need a Communications Plan. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-08: MDA/JT will award Leon a certificate as formal recognition of his contribution. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-07: WQ - TC to review the use of these servers in Jan 2017 and decide whether to extend. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-04: WQ - TC to agree lifecycle patching strategy. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-03: WQ – TC to define ‘patchable’. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-02: WQ – Define ‘good test coverage’ as a percentage (with TC). </span></li>
</ul>

<h4 id="annual-meeting-am">Annual Meeting (AM)</h4>

<ul>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-AM-2016-07: MDA – Establish a Risk Register for the OpenWIS Association AISBL. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-AM-2016-06: EE - Remove the 30 day rule about budgets from the Internal Rules annex. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-AM-2016-05: EE – Amend the Internal Rules annex to recommend due diligence when purchasing. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-AM-2016-04: EE – Amend the Internal Rules annex to oblige the seeking of quote(s) or estimate(s) and sending them to the Treasurer prior to entering contractual arrangements. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-AM-2016-03: MDA - Talk to ING contact on return to France. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-AM-2016-02: JT/SC - agree smart metrics for each goal by June SC. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-AM-2016-01: WQ/PR - draft a process for separating PMC/TC tasks into appropriate meetings. </span></li>
</ul>

<hr />

<h3 id="actions-closed-by-11th-january-2017">Actions closed by 11th January 2017</h3>

<ul>
  <li>Oct <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-48: LM - Check the changes are good and then raise a pull-request. </span></li>
  <li>Oct <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-49: OL - Document the hardware spec for a typical environment and add to the document pack for the release. </span></li>
  <li>Oct <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-50: LM - Review the READ.ME and make it more useful as a starting point for potential contributors. </span></li>
  <li>Oct <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-51: PR - Publish a check-list so everyone can keep track of progress. </span></li>
  <li>Oct <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-52: LM - Add or extend Technical Rules to cover wider documentation standards. </span></li>
  <li>Oct <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-53: PR - Find a suitable sample and draft a Code of Conduct. </span></li>
  <li>Oct <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-54: PR - Check this is ok with MFI and ask how they want to represent that on the website etc. </span></li>
  <li>Oct <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-55: MC - Ask when the poster is expected to be ready and let the TC know. </span></li>
  <li>Oct <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-56: WQ - Send the draft poster to SO. </span></li>
  <li>Oct <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-57: PR - Arrange for the UKMO CM team to do that once the SC give approval. </span></li>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-DC-2016-02: LM - Technical Rules build out</li>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-DC-2016-03: SO - OpenWIS Association Level and OpenWIS Project Level Webpages</li>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-DC-2016-06: PR - Repository aspects (packaging, sourcing) (Action: Paul to schedule a follow on meeting to discuss this)</li>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-DC-2016-08: PR - Code of Conduct. Need samples from other open source projects</li>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-DC-2016-09: DP - Geonetwork 3 analysis and report due by end of October (Action: Eurodyn)</li>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-DC-2016-12: PR - Seek TC and SC approval of OpenWIS 3.14.7(?) as stable open source version.</li>
  <li>Sep <span class="action">ACTION-DC-2016-14: RG - OpenWIS Public Announcement CBS material for review/comment period</li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-30: WQ - Trial TC by Webex. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-17 ALL: make NWS aware of our requirements for Eclipse.</li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-9: LM - update the install guide (#6). </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-8: LM - update the install guide (#3). </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-TC-2016-7: RGr - Check with Francois that #32 is fixed. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-33: JT - Set a date for the next SC in June 2016. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-25: RGib - Improve the existing web-site (nothing grand). </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-22: JT - Come up with suitable method for managing CLAs.  Bring back to SC to approve by correspondence.  Update CLA process and forms if approved. </span></li>
  <li>Mar <span class="action">ACTION-SC-2016-01: PR - make a proposal for Kanban backlog and metrics, agree with TC and then circulate to SC. </span></li>
</ul>

	</div>

</article>

      </div>
    </div>

    
<div class="wrapper">



</div>

  
  
    <footer class="site-footer">

  <div class="wrapper">
    <div>
      <p><a class="gh-pages-editor-link" href="https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/blob/gh-pages/_minutes/2017-01-11-OpenWIS-Action-Tracker-2017-Jan.md">Edit this page on gh-pages</a></p>
    </div>

    <div class="footer-col-wrapper">
      <div class="footer-col footer-col-1">
        <ul class="contact-list">
          <li><a href="/openwis-documentation/">OpenWIS Association AISBL</a></li>
          <li><a href="mailto:contact@openwis.io">contact@openwis.io</a></li>
        </ul>
      </div>

      <div style="text-align:right; float:right" class="footer-col footer-col-3">
        <p><a rel="license" href="//creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/" target="_blank" title="Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license"><img src="https://licensebuttons.net/l/by/4.0/88x31.png" alt="License"/></a></p>
        <p><small>Except where otherwise noted, content on <span href="/openwis-documentation">this site</span> is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="//creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/" target="_blank"> Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license</a>.</small></p>
      </div>
    </div>

  </div>

</footer>


  </body>

</html>
