_rules2/2017-12-06-OpenWIS-Governance-Roles-Responsibilities.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: OpenWIS&reg; Governance Roles and Responsibilities
---

##### December 2017

This document summarises the composition and responsibilities of the governance bodies within the OpenWIS&reg; Association.

This is intended as a supplement to the [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) and [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}). In the event of any discrepancy between the intentions noted in this document, meaning and governance shall be sought from the Articles of Association then the Internal Rules over this document.

### Board
Defined in [ARTICLE 12: BOARD]({{ "/articles/12-board.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

#### Composition
**Representatives** (one per Member organisation)
**Chair**, **Vice-chair** and **Treasurer** (Managing Directors, elected from Representatives)

#### Responsibilities
* Ensure the purpose of the OpenWIS&reg; Association is clear
* Ensure that the governance framework is fit for purpose for the OpenWIS&reg; Association to meet its goals
* Ensure that risks to the Association are being adequately managed; intervene where necessary
* Approval of OpenWIS&reg; Association policy - including amendments to [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) and [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }})
* Approve annual budget, budget amendments and extraordinary expenditure; set membership fees
* Approve initiation of Projects and amendments to Project Charters recommended by SC
* Approve the terms on which OpenWIS&reg; software is licensed
* Approve appointment of new Partners and Members
* Appoint Managing Directors

### Steering Committee (SC)
Defined in [ARTICLE 13: STEERING COMMITTEE]({{ "/articles/13-steering-committee.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

#### Composition
**Delegates** (one per Member and Strategic Partner organisation)
**Chair** and **Vice-chair** (elected from the Delegates)

#### Responsibilities
* Determine if proposed Partners and Members meet the joining criteria for the OpenWIS&reg; Association
* Conduct out-reach to encourage organisations to join as Partners
* Coordinate initiation of new Projects (determine if proposed projects fit the purpose of the OpenWIS&reg; Association; review Project Charters; establish the PMC for the Project; appoint Project Leader; help determine the License under which the Project will operate; commission technical resources (from TC) required by the Project etc.)
* Hold Projects accountable for delivering to their schedule and quality plan (PMC must agree release criteria with SC); assess whether they are ready to move from Incubation to Mature phase
* Approve release of OpenWIS&reg; software
* Review Project’s requests to amend their Charter
* Recommend amendments to Articles and Internal Rules to Board
* Arbitrate where Project-level issues cannot be resolved by the PMC or TC
* Review Project requests for financial support; approve where these requests are within existing budget
* Coordinate legal & financial issues for portfolio of OpenWIS projects (e.g. contributor license agreement)
* Ensure compliance with OpenWIS&reg; Association processes
* Manage risks to the OpenWIS&reg; Association; act as point of escalation for Project-level risks
* Appoint SC Chair and Vice-chair
* Appoint TC Chair and Vice-chair

### Technical Committee (TC)
Defined in [Article 14: TECHNICAL COMMITTEE]({{ "/articles/14-technical-committee.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

#### Composition
**TC members** («_any person qualified by training, skills and/or experience, as judged by the SC or TC Chair_»)
**Chair** and **Vice-chair** (elected by vote of SC)

#### Responsibilities
* Plan, manage & operate the technical infrastructure and resources required to support portfolio of OpenWIS&reg; Projects 
* Manage CLAs from Contributors
* Define, and ensure compliance with, the [Code of Conduct]({{ "/conduct/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}))
* Define, and ensure compliance with, the general [Technical Rules]({{ "/tr/" | prepend: site.baseurl }})) applying to all Projects (coding standards, [software] packaging policy etc.)
* Provide architectural oversight for Projects (e.g. “design authority” providing technical oversight); monitor, guide, and influence the software architectures used by Projects
* Provide release management oversight for Projects
* Mentor Projects in Incubation phase
* Define technical standards that Projects must adhere to; verifies compliance
* Recommend to SC budgeted proposals for infrastructure necessary to support portfolio of OpenWIS&reg; Projects 
* Advise SC on highlights, risks and issues pertaining to individual OpenWIS&reg; Projects

### Project Management Committee (PMC)

#### Composition
**Project Lead(s)** (initially appointed by SC, otherwise elected by vote of PMC)
**TC mentor** (appointed by TC)
**PMC members** («_any person qualified by training, skills and/or experience, as judged by the SC or Project Lead_» = one per sponsoring Member of Partner organisation, membership may change over time through election from the active Contributors by vote of the PMC)

#### Responsibilities
* Ensure all Contributors have completed a CLA for the Project
* Run the Project, approve work-packages, collect requirements, set milestones, define quality criteria / release criteria
* Engage with TC to review technical architecture for the Project's software
* Develop plan for user and developer community engagement 
* Communicate with individual Contributors
* Define, and ensure compliance with, Technical Rules for the Project
* Appoint PMC members and elect new Project Leaders
* Agree Project quality criteria, milestones, release schedule and software license with SC
* Prepare software releases and seek release approval from SC
* Report annually to SC on Project status vs. quality criteria, milestones, release schedule, community engagement, summary of interactions with TC (technical details not required) and any specific activities receiving financial support from the OpenWIS&reg; Association (as outlined in [Rule 12.8]({{ "/rules/12-financial-accounting-and-organisational-expenses.html#rule-12.8" | prepend: site.baseurl }}))

### Project teams

#### Composition
**Contributors** (anyone considered to be an «_upstanding member of the OpenWIS community_», e.g. they agree to abide by the [Code of Conduct]({{ "/conduct/" | prepend: site.baseurl }})) and have submitted a Contributor License Agreement)

_Note: there are no restrictions on organisationl affiliation for Contributors - while they will often be from Member or Partner organisations, they do not have to be._

#### Responsibilities
* Deliver project outcomes as defined in the Project plan and work-packages
* Complete and return CLA
* Comply with [Code of Conduct]({{ "/conduct/" | prepend: site.baseurl }})) and [Technical Rules]({{ "/tr/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}))

Commit message:

added link to slide with summary overview

_rules2/2017-12-06-OpenWIS-Governance-Roles-Responsibilities.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: OpenWIS&reg; Governance Roles and Responsibilities
---

##### December 2017

This document summarises the composition and responsibilities of the governance bodies within the OpenWIS&reg; Association.

This is intended as a supplement to the [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) and [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}). In the event of any discrepancy between the intentions noted in this document, meaning and governance shall be sought from the Articles of Association then the Internal Rules over this document.

An overview of the governance roles and resposibilities is provided [here]({{ "/assets/OpenWIS_Association_governance-summary.pdf" | prepend: site.baseurl }}).

### Board
Defined in [ARTICLE 12: BOARD]({{ "/articles/12-board.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

#### Composition
**Representatives** (one per Member organisation)
**Chair**, **Vice-chair** and **Treasurer** (Managing Directors, elected from Representatives)

#### Responsibilities
* Ensure the purpose of the OpenWIS&reg; Association is clear
* Ensure that the governance framework is fit for purpose for the OpenWIS&reg; Association to meet its goals
* Ensure that risks to the Association are being adequately managed; intervene where necessary
* Approval of OpenWIS&reg; Association policy - including amendments to [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) and [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }})
* Approve annual budget, budget amendments and extraordinary expenditure; set membership fees
* Approve initiation of Projects and amendments to Project Charters recommended by SC
* Approve the terms on which OpenWIS&reg; software is licensed
* Approve appointment of new Partners and Members
* Appoint Managing Directors

### Steering Committee (SC)
Defined in [ARTICLE 13: STEERING COMMITTEE]({{ "/articles/13-steering-committee.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

#### Composition
**Delegates** (one per Member and Strategic Partner organisation)
**Chair** and **Vice-chair** (elected from the Delegates)

#### Responsibilities
* Determine if proposed Partners and Members meet the joining criteria for the OpenWIS&reg; Association
* Conduct out-reach to encourage organisations to join as Partners
* Coordinate initiation of new Projects (determine if proposed projects fit the purpose of the OpenWIS&reg; Association; review Project Charters; establish the PMC for the Project; appoint Project Leader; help determine the License under which the Project will operate; commission technical resources (from TC) required by the Project etc.)
* Hold Projects accountable for delivering to their schedule and quality plan (PMC must agree release criteria with SC); assess whether they are ready to move from Incubation to Mature phase
* Approve release of OpenWIS&reg; software
* Review Project’s requests to amend their Charter
* Recommend amendments to Articles and Internal Rules to Board
* Arbitrate where Project-level issues cannot be resolved by the PMC or TC
* Review Project requests for financial support; approve where these requests are within existing budget
* Coordinate legal & financial issues for portfolio of OpenWIS projects (e.g. contributor license agreement)
* Ensure compliance with OpenWIS&reg; Association processes
* Manage risks to the OpenWIS&reg; Association; act as point of escalation for Project-level risks
* Appoint SC Chair and Vice-chair
* Appoint TC Chair and Vice-chair

### Technical Committee (TC)
Defined in [Article 14: TECHNICAL COMMITTEE]({{ "/articles/14-technical-committee.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

#### Composition
**TC members** («_any person qualified by training, skills and/or experience, as judged by the SC or TC Chair_»)
**Chair** and **Vice-chair** (elected by vote of SC)

#### Responsibilities
* Plan, manage & operate the technical infrastructure and resources required to support portfolio of OpenWIS&reg; Projects 
* Manage CLAs from Contributors
* Define, and ensure compliance with, the [Code of Conduct]({{ "/conduct/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}))
* Define, and ensure compliance with, the general [Technical Rules]({{ "/tr/" | prepend: site.baseurl }})) applying to all Projects (coding standards, [software] packaging policy etc.)
* Provide architectural oversight for Projects (e.g. “design authority” providing technical oversight); monitor, guide, and influence the software architectures used by Projects
* Provide release management oversight for Projects
* Mentor Projects in Incubation phase
* Define technical standards that Projects must adhere to; verifies compliance
* Recommend to SC budgeted proposals for infrastructure necessary to support portfolio of OpenWIS&reg; Projects 
* Advise SC on highlights, risks and issues pertaining to individual OpenWIS&reg; Projects

### Project Management Committee (PMC)

#### Composition
**Project Lead(s)** (initially appointed by SC, otherwise elected by vote of PMC)
**TC mentor** (appointed by TC)
**PMC members** («_any person qualified by training, skills and/or experience, as judged by the SC or Project Lead_» = one per sponsoring Member of Partner organisation, membership may change over time through election from the active Contributors by vote of the PMC)

#### Responsibilities
* Ensure all Contributors have completed a CLA for the Project
* Run the Project, approve work-packages, collect requirements, set milestones, define quality criteria / release criteria
* Engage with TC to review technical architecture for the Project's software
* Develop plan for user and developer community engagement 
* Communicate with individual Contributors
* Define, and ensure compliance with, Technical Rules for the Project
* Appoint PMC members and elect new Project Leaders
* Agree Project quality criteria, milestones, release schedule and software license with SC
* Prepare software releases and seek release approval from SC
* Report annually to SC on Project status vs. quality criteria, milestones, release schedule, community engagement, summary of interactions with TC (technical details not required) and any specific activities receiving financial support from the OpenWIS&reg; Association (as outlined in [Rule 12.8]({{ "/rules/12-financial-accounting-and-organisational-expenses.html#rule-12.8" | prepend: site.baseurl }}))

### Project teams

#### Composition
**Contributors** (anyone considered to be an «_upstanding member of the OpenWIS community_», e.g. they agree to abide by the [Code of Conduct]({{ "/conduct/" | prepend: site.baseurl }})) and have submitted a Contributor License Agreement)

_Note: there are no restrictions on organisationl affiliation for Contributors - while they will often be from Member or Partner organisations, they do not have to be._

#### Responsibilities
* Deliver project outcomes as defined in the Project plan and work-packages
* Complete and return CLA
* Comply with [Code of Conduct]({{ "/conduct/" | prepend: site.baseurl }})) and [Technical Rules]({{ "/tr/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}))
