---
layout: page
title: OpenWIS Board Meeting 2020 October
minuteOwner: board
---
##### 1 October 2020, BlueJeans video-conference.

**1.	Welcome and introductions**

- RGr welcomed the attendees

**2.	Approval of agenda**

- All OK

**3.	Declaration of delegates**

The current Board members are:
	•	Rémy Giraud (RGr), Météo France [MF] - Managing Director: Chairperson
	•	Weiqing Qu (WQ), Bureau of Meteorology [BoM] - Managing Director: Vice-Chairperson
	•	Jeremy Tandy (JT), Met Office [UKMO]
	•	Patrick Benichou (PB), Météo France International [MFI]
	•	Mr. YUN Hyuk Jin (HY), Korea Meteorological Administration [KMA]

All attendees were content with the following:
	•	KMA - Sungsoo Do (SD) representing with authority from KMA Director Mr. YUN Hyuk Jin.
	•	MFI - Rémy Giraud (RGr) representing with authority from MFI President - Patrick Benichou

*Other attendees:*
- Jude Anthonisz (JA) of the Met Office (OpenWIS Secretariat) (UKMO)

**4.	[Approval of previous minutes](http://openwis.github.io/openwis-documentation/minutes/board/2019-05-23-OpenWIS-Board-Meeting-2020-May.html)**

- All - approved


**5.	Approval of the OpenCDMS PMC**

- JT Summarised the position and purpose of OpenCDMS and members of PMC and recommended the Board to accept.
- RGr - please outline the discussion re Amazon Web Services (AWS).
- JT - AWS are excited to engage with OpenCDMS as part of initiative in combatting Climate Change. AWS are evaluating best way to engage with CDMS.  One option is to join OWA as an Associate Member.  The  OpenCDMS Project team are OK with something like this as long as AWS do not take over.  This is an Interesting opportunity financially and with technical expertise that would benefit OpenCDMS.
- RGr - We need to have assurance that objectives of AWS are aligned in a public-private partnership. Also, the Association must have assurance of being in the driving seat and ensure that there is no exclusivity dependency only using AWS.  Therefore, at the SC we agreed that I would meet AWS jointly with JT to explore and define further.  
- JT - I think that the Association governance arrangements keeps the Association partners in driving seat.
- WQ - Do we know what AWS is interested in? i.e. why?
- JT - AWS want to participate in OpenCDMS .  OpenCDMS has two aims – development and a reference implementation with infrastructure for collection and sharing.  So, AWS can help with both, particularly the latter, and have pledged a large budget to contribute to a societal benefit.  Engaging with the Association, which is a non-profit organisation will enable AWS to provide support.
- WQ - What the relationship will be with WMO?  Also, what is WMO’s position on public-private partnership?
- JT - This Board already accepted OpenCDMS as being part of Association.  WMO is directly involved in the OpenCDMS.  WMO has an evolving position that has been live for several years.  WMO recognise value, but as it has a large number of WMO members, there are  different opinions on how this will work.
- WQ - So no impact on the Association?
- JT - My opinion is that it does not.  We have the option of feeding back to WMO.
- RGr - Any more questions?
- All - No
- JT - We need to approve the change to the CLA.
- RGr - The intention is to have a specific CLA which includes documentation and software.  We agreed that this will be an updated version of the CLA ‘version 2’.  We were going to check with Michael Robbins (MR) as to whether everyone needs to sign, noting that there will be further change to the CLA as result of ongoing discussions with NWS.  Overall, aim is to have one version of a CLA.
- JT - I have created an update to the CLA
- RGr - I have approved

Vote on OpenCDMS PMC and approach with AWS – ALL-OK.

RES-OWIS RESOLUTION – The Board agreed the membership of the OpenCDMS PMC; update to the CLA; and the approach for JT and RGr to have joint meetings with AWS. 


**6. Approval of proposed Changes to Association by-laws**

- RGr - The proposed revised by-laws are as set out in v0.8.  We also need to discuss the change the term of appointment of the Treasurer, i.e. appointment for 2 years and eligible for re-election indefinitely.  Decided to keep the description of a PMC in the Internal Rules rather than in the by-laws.
- WQ - Agreed that this is flexible, if Belgian law allows this
- RGr- Yes.  We now have to approve this with advice from MR.  MR has been consulted and has no issues.  MR suggests that the changes should be published in the Gazette.  Initial translation by MF.  My recommendation to use notary for fee for publication.
- ALL - the by-law was amended to clarity the relationship between TC and PMC and SC.
- RGr - Please check v8.1 to be clear. If a significant change, a Board meeting will be reconvened if there is a significant change.
- ALL - agreed

RES-OWIS RESOLUTION - The Board approved the updated version of the by-laws (8.1)


**7. Approval of Revisions to budget**

- RGr - Compared to May 2020 two changes:
	•	Project costs not needed in 2020 due to changes in evaluation of code being developed in MFI which could also reduce overall spend.
	•	Legal Advice on procurement option.  The conclusion is that procurement must be done by a European public body.  Also, cost is additional 5200 k Euros.  Original cost 3500 ex vat.  So, for budgeting will be 10518 Euros is recommended.
	•	This gives a revised budget for 2020 of 35753 euros compared with 39470 in May 2020
- WQ  - are we stopping procurement ?
- RGr - No. It is taking longer, moving from August to December 2020.  Meaning that earliest procurement start is February 2021. So, delayed but should eventually cost less money.
- WQ - Why cost less?
- RGr - MFI code will reduce amount of work required.
- RGr - vote on budget.
- All - agreed.
- WQ - When will code be ready and other work completed?
- RGr - Likely to be mid-June 2020

**8. Endorse risks assessment made by the Steering Committee**

- RGr -good review of risk and close 1 risk re OpenCDMS as this risk resolved and if any risk materialises JT will raise
- Vote - All agreed.

**9. Any other business**

- None.

**10. Confirm the host of next meeting**
- None planned.  Please note that an SC is scheduled for late November or early December 2020.  Early December with the agenda for:
	•	Procurement routes
	•	CLA with NOAA
	•	A more refined timeline for middleware
	•	Update on discussions with AWS.
- If a Board meeting is needed one can be scheduled at any point. 

**16. Close**
- 1435 UTC.
