---
layout: page
title: OpenWIS Board Meeting June 2022
minuteOwner: board
---

#### 7th June 2022 - MS Teams videoconference

---
**1. Welcome and introductions**

  - RGr welcomed all delegates to the meeting as Chair of the OpenWIS Association Board.
  - RGr welcomed Joe Davies (JD), who will be taking the minutes for this meeting and Steve Olson from the Technical Committee and Sungsoo Do from the Steering Committee.

**2. Approval of the agenda**

  - All - The agenda was approved.

**3. Declaration of Delegates**

  -  RGr Confirmed that 4 out of 5 Board member delegates attending, which included Loïc Le Gallou (LG) representing Mr. Patrick Benichou, therefore quorate.
  - The current board members present were:

*3.1 Current members that were present*

   -    Rémy Giraud (RGr), Météo France [MF] - SC Chair
  -	Jeremy Tandy (JT), Met Office [UKMO] - SC Vice Chair
  -	Loïc Le Gallou (LG), Météo France International [MFI] acting on behalf of Mr. Patrick Benichou & Treasurer - Nathalie Dureisseix
  -	Inmook Na (MrNA), Korea Meteorological Administration [KMA]

*3.2 Other attendees*

  - Steve Olson (SO), National Weather Service [NWS]
  - Joe Davies (JD) Met Office [UKMO] (minute taker for this meeting)
  - Sungsoo Do (SSDo), Korea Meteorological Administration [KMA]

**4. Approval of previous minutes**

  -  All - The minutes of the previous meeting were approved.

**5. Outstanding actions**

 - [https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Board+Meeting%22](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Board+Meeting%22)

The delegates worked through each of the open issues and risks assigned to the board on GitHub with JD sharing his screen.

As a result of the discussion, it was agreed for three of the risks / issues to remain open.

- [Review Internal Rules · Issue #629 · OpenWIS/openwis-documentation (github.com)](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/629) - It was agreed that this issue would remain as an ongoing task for the board to undertake as and when required.
- [RISK-000014 - Current partners not being able to participate in OpenWIS processes. · Issue #594 · OpenWIS/openwis-documentation (github.com)](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/594) - It was agreed for the new chair of the Board, JT to try and contact IMD. This was also recorded as an output from the annual Steering Committee meeting.
- [RISK-000002 Compliance failures · Issue #334 · OpenWIS/openwis-documentation (github.com)](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/334) - It was agreed for this issue to remain as an ongoing task.

_Action. JD / OpenWIS secretariate to update issue #334 with a list of annual compliance tasks to be undertaken by the OpenWIS Board. This would also include term of office permitted and time served by each board Managing Director._

There were no new issues or risks which needed to be added to the log.

**6. OpenWIS Association Membership**

- RGr - My understanding, we have not received any requests from a prospective partner indicating they would like to join or contribute to the OpenWIS Association?
- All – Correct, we have not received any requests.
- RGr- there is sufficient money in the association accounts and therefore no need to change the membership fees.
- JT – confirmed there was no need to amend the fees.

**7. Election of Managing Directors and confirmation of Office.**

*7.1. Technical Committee Chair and Vice Chair*

_RESOLUTION - The Board ratified the decision of the Steering Committee to elect the following roles: TC Chair is Steve Olson and that the Vice Chair is David Podeur_

*7.2. Chair of the OpenWIS Board*

RGr – confirmed that he has served his maximum term in the position and therefore another delegate will need to be elected to the role.

After a round robin of delegates in attendance, JT confirmed his intention to stand for the role of Managing Director: Chairperson.

_RESOLUTION – JT elected as the OpenWIS Association Board Managing Director: Chairperson and will commence year one of his maximum four continuous years in office._

*7.3 Vice Chair of the OpenWIS Board*

_RESOLUTION – WQ elected as the OpenWIS Association Board Managing Director: Vice-Chairperson and confirmed in writing post meeting. WQ will commence year three in office of his maximum continuous service of four years._

*7.4 Treasurer*

LG - ND has indicated she is happy to continue in the role of Treasurer for the OpenWIS Association.

_RESOLUTION – Ms. Nathalie Dureisseix (ND) elected as the OpenWIS Association Board Treasurer. N.B – there is no maximum length of service for the role of Treasurer._

**8. Reports and recommendations from the SC**

The following SC resolutions were presented to the board to consider and vote to approve or reject.

**Recommendation One – taken from the OpenWIS SC annual meeting minutes 2022**

_‘The SC agreed via a unanimous vote, to endorse option one proposed by the TC relating to Travis CI and this money would be included in the 2022 budget. ‘_

 1. **Travis-ci Builds**
	* Option 1 (one concurrent build) -- $759 annual

_RESOLUTION - The Board approved recommendation one made by the Steering Committee with a unanimous vote of delegate members to include funds in the budget to cover the costs for Travis-ci to the value of $759._

**Recommendation Two**

_‘The SC agreed via a unanimous vote, to make a recommendation to the board to allocate 50k euros in the support of WIS2 initiatives and that each time we come to spend a significant chunk of money, we will come to the steering committee and consult or inform. ‘_

The money could be spent on the following activities as discussed in the OpenWIS annual SC meeting 2022:
1. WIS2 in a box software – improving data exchange aspect – which is scalable
2. There is very little web presence and documentation – looking at the broader picture to help facilitate the transition.
3. Support and help some members to run a global service e.g., Global Cache, Global Broker – this might require a budget in the short term as it could take one or two years to obtain internal approval. The association could provide some support.
4. Contribute with the anti-loop software
5. The WIS2 team there might need support to build some gateway software
6. The second is potentially writing some tools to help people or developing some tools to help people write metadata.
7. The third is whether we want to consider building a domain or locale specific portal which supports a local / regional requirement for global Discovery catalogue, such as language specific content.

_RESOLUTION - The Board approved recommendation two as detailed above made by the Steering Committee with a unanimous vote of delegate members. As a result, 50k euros will be included in the budget._

**Recommendation Three**

The SC propose to continue to maintain and engage in an informal relation with colleagues at Deutscher Wetterdienst (DWD). This will support WIS2 activity.

_RESOLUTION - The Board approved recommendation three made by the Steering Committee with a unanimous vote of delegate members._

**9. Approve of changes to Internal Rules (see Rule A12.17)**

* RGr – advised there were no changes required to the internal rules
* All - Agreed

**10. Annual accounts from 2021 (Treasurer)**

* LG presented a finance overview to the Steering Committee which is summarised below:

Summary of Finances 2020 / 2021

![211231_Finance](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/blob/master/assets/2022-06-07%20BM%20Pic1.png?raw=true)

* RGr – asked the delegates to raise any questions, concerns, or clarification?
* ALL – no questions, concerns or clarification required.

_RESOLUTION – The aboard unanimously approved the proposed accounts for 2021._

**11. Approve the 2022: annual budget, budget amendments and extraordinary expenditure; and reserve fund (see Rule R10.7), set membership fees**

Summary of the proposed budget for 2022:

![Budget_2022](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/blob/master/assets/2022-06-07%20BM%20Pic2.png?raw=true)

* RGr – asked the delegates to raise any questions, concerns, or clarification?
* SSDo – asked for clarification regarding the calculations which LL worked through with the group. There were no corrections required and the figures were accepted.
* ALL – no further questions, concerns or clarification required.

_RESOLUTION – The aboard unanimously approved the proposed budget for 2022._

**12. Any other business**

* SO – presented to the board an update on the OpenCDMS as follows:

OpenCDMS Update:

- The OpenCDMS project is on track with respect to the 12-month plan presented to the TC last year. Most notably, they have an initial prototype of the OpenCDMS user interface, which was the main component that had not been started this time last year.
- The OpenCDMS team requests for OpenWIS Association support to remain the same as last year, with the caveat that we've had to put in place interim solutions:
   *   OpenCDMS is currently achieving 100% [CLA coverage](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/494) using electronic signing (CLA-BOT).  CLA-BOT is an automatic process, called a "GitHub Action" that runs every time code is submitted to any of the OpenCDMS repositories and checks whether the person submitting the code is on the list of people who have signed the CLA. Contributors sign the CLA through GitHub. When they sign, the openCDMS project knows that they have logged into the GitHub website using their username and password, which allows them to be certain that the user submitting code is the same user who has signed the CLA. See the following example: [https://github.com/opencdms/clabot-config/issues/13](https://github.com/opencdms/clabot-config/issues/13)
   * The openCDMS team is managing to move ahead with Amazon Web Services independently of OpenWIS on a very ad hoc basis.  The openCDMS team is hopeful that AWS will renew their free credits in September (otherwise an OpenWIS-AWS partnership could be very beneficial to the openCDMS team and would be a main benefit of being part of the Association)

		[https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/610](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/610)

   * Suggestion from OpenCDMS team:
	   + In light of the Association's desire to support a broader range of projects (related to '[RISK-000007](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/493)') and also to avoid becoming irrelevant ('[RISK-000005](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/491)') and further - in light of WMO's shift to an '[Earth System Approach](https://public.wmo.int/en/media/press-release/congress-endorses-shift-%E2%80%9Cearth-system%E2%80%9D-approach)' - we suggested that the Association could consider changing its name to something like the 'Earth System Association'. This was seen as very low priority by the OpenWIS SC and has no real impact on OpenCDMS, so I suggest we remove it from the list this year.

**13. Confirm the host of next meeting**

* RGr – meetings would be physical every other year with the next one planned for 2023 with BoM as hosts. RGr & JT also added that the meeting could be combined with WIS2 workshops.

**14. Close**
