---
layout: page
title: OpenWIS Action Tracker 2017 March
---

---

### Actions open at 15th March 2017


#### Developer Conference 2016 (DC)

- Sep ACT-OWIS-DC-2016-01: LM - Creation of video on the build process
- Sep ACT-OWIS-DC-2016-05: PR - Have full sponsor’s Legal review CLA agreement and comment
- Sep ACT-OWIS-DC-2016-07: RG - Administration of Open Mailing list. Probably need to have one administrators of this list
- Sep ACT-OWIS-DC-2016-11: LM - General examination of extended JBOSS capabilities for portals) (Action: Entire Team, led by Leon)
- Sep ACT-OWIS-DC-2016-13: LM - Examination of using GN3 LDAP for user accounts. Work to understand is how to shoehorn user permissions and groups to data as well as metadata, and the application of this to cache.
- Sep ACT-OWIS-DC-2016-17: MC - Update OpenDJ/OpenAM scripts for deployment

#### Technical Committee (TC)

- Dec ACT-OWIS-TC-2016-59: All - review OpenWIS v4.0 and provide the feedback as GitHub Issues within the OpenWIS4 repository. OWIS-ACT
- Sep ACT-OWIS-TC-2016-46: LM - Circulate the url of the portal on Proxmox. OWIS-ACT
- Jul ACT-OWIS-TC-2016-44: RG - Will send round an email with the team contact email address. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-TC-2016-25: WQ - TC to set a task to develop onboarding docs set for developers. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-TC-2016-23: JT - Include the requirement for the Security Service to control data access in the Data Policy workpackage. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-TC-2016-22: RGr - Create a work package to review Data Policy and Access Control implications in detail. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-TC-2016-21: RGb - Investigate how to link the data policy in the metadata with the assignment of GeoNetwork privileges. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-TC-2016-20: JT - Create a work package for WMO metadata guidance templates. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-TC-2016-18: JT - Create work package on UI improvement for bulk subs. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-TC-2016-15: RGb: draft a User Story for the User Portal subscription process. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-TC-2016-13: WQ - document the design pattern policy; still deploy to wildfly in short/medium term. OWIS-ACT

#### Steering Committee (SC)

- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-32: EE - Check with Michael Robbins for fees related to trademarks. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-31: BB - Will help develop a value proposition.  But I'm not ideal; people in WMO have that experience, so I will ask around to see if I can identify the right
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-30: JT - Let's put targeted communications on the agenda for the next SC meeting. OWIS-ACT

- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-28: JT - To write a strategy paper on: Where we can deliver the most value for the broader community in the near future. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-26: RGib - Provide to the Association the feedback received so far from users to TC and SC. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-24: LLG – Clarify in the communications plan. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-23: RGib - email info about who is using OpenWIS to both TC and SC. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-21: JT/PR - Work with Michael to determine legal validity in all territories of a click-through online CLA - and validity under Belgian law.  Refer to legal contact of IRM? OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-20: JT/PR - Talk to Michael Robbins about whether an umbrella agreement would have legal standing. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-19: RGir - Investigate appetite for a project proposal with DWD. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-18: MDA - Find out if NMS Canada is interested in bringing MetPX under the OpenWIS umbrella. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-17: WQ - To do a project proposal relating an investigation work package for the OpenWIS Core. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-16: JT - Clarify articles that may appear to force other people to pay for your project.
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-15: WQ(TC) - Define the roles in the development process - see JT doc. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-14: PR - RISK for Board Risk Register - That the articles of the Association are not fit for purpose regarding, particularly:
  - Article 14.1 Architecture role of TC,
  - Article 9.1 No mention of contributors,
  - Article 21.2 Indemnity of partners and contributors. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-13: JT (through Michael Robbins) get legal advice on whether the articles shelter the contributors from litigation. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-12: JT - Make sure the role of User is clear in the internal rules. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-08: MDA/JT will award Leon a certificate as formal recognition of his contribution. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-04: WQ - TC to agree lifecycle patching strategy. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-03: WQ – TC to define 'patchable'. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-02: WQ – Define 'good test coverage' as a percentage (with TC). OWIS-ACT

#### Annual Meeting (AM)

- Mar ACT-OWIS-AM-2016-07: MDA – Establish a Risk Register for the OpenWIS Association AISBL. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-AM-2016-02: JT/SC - agree smart metrics for each goal by June SC. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-AM-2016-01: WQ/PR - draft a process for separating PMC/TC tasks into appropriate meetings. OWIS-ACT

---

### Actions closed by 15th March 2017

- Mar ACT-OWIS-AM-2016-06: EE - Remove the 30 day rule about budgets from the Internal Rules annex. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-AM-2016-05: EE – Amend the Internal Rules annex to recommend due diligence when purchasing. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-AM-2016-04: EE – Amend the Internal Rules annex to oblige the seeking of quote(s) or estimate(s) and sending them to the Treasurer prior to entering contractual arrangements. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-AM-2016-03: MDA - Talk to ING contact on return to France. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-07: WQ - TC to review the use of these servers in Jan 2017 and decide whether to extend. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-10: JT - As part of going open source we need a Communications Plan. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-SC-2016-29: OL - Come up with an appropriate name. OWIS-ACT
- Mar ACT-OWIS-TC-2016-19: BB - Ask Simon Pigot for an update. OWIS-ACT
- Dec ACT-OWIS-TC-2016-60: PR - Add a Kanban task for this review. OWIS-ACT
- Dec ACT-OWIS-TC-2016-58: PR - Share proposal on development process improvements by end of January. OWIS-ACT
- Sep ACT-OWIS-DC-2016-15: LM - Examination of the use of message queues. This won’t happen in the initial 4.0 release, but occur downstream (Action: Entire Development Team)
- Sep ACT-OWIS-DC-2016-10: DW - Work with Geonetwork in understanding users and groups within GN3. These apply to metadata records. Can something similar be created for data?
