_minutes/2017-02-23-Agenda-OpenWIS-Steering-Committee-2017-Mar-Toulouse.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Provisional Agenda - OpenWIS Steering Committee 2017 March - Toulouse
---

#### 22nd - 23rd March 2017

---

(The responsibilities of the Steering Committee [SC] are described in Article 13)

1. **Welcome and introductions**
    - JT
2. **Approval of agenda**
	  - JT
3. **Declaration of delegates**
    - PR - Record who is a SC representative and who is an observer and any proxies.
4. **Approval of previous minutes**
    - JT
5. **Outstanding actions**
    - PR - Action Tracker
6. **Election of chairperson ("SC Chair") and vice-chairperson ("SC Vice-Chair") of the Steering Committee (see Article A13.5)**
	  1. JT – request nominees ahead of meeting?
7. **Election of chairperson ("TC-Chair") and vice-chairperson ("TC-Vice-Chair") of the Technical Committee (see Article A14.3)**
	  1. JT – request nominees ahead of meeting?
8. **Recommendations to the Board regarding admission of new Members (see Article 6 and Internal Rule 4)**
	  1. JT
9. **Strategic positioning of OpenWIS Association activities**
    1. **Retrospective review of OpenWIS Association performance since SC-2016, Seoul**
        - WQ
    2. **Review the continuing need for the OpenWIS Association**
        - JT
    3. **How do we see OpenWIS Association evolving?**
        - JT
    4. **Future requirements of WIS Centres**
        1. MF - Future WIS strategy
        2. JT - Evolution of WMO Core Metadata Profile
    5. **Review of Strategic Goals and Metrics (3 year horizon)**
        - JT
    6. **Recommendations to the Board**
        - JT - Medium term goals; 3 year strategy:
10. **Review of recommendations from Technical Committee**
    1. **Report(s) from Technical Committee March 2017, Toulouse, France  - Weiqing Qu, TC Chair**
        1. Review of development over the past year, since Seoul 2016
        2. Proposed work plan for 2017.
	3. **Resolution of issues referred to SC (if any arising)**
		  - JT
	4. **Approval of strategic programme and work plan(s)**
		  1. RES-OWIS-SC-2017-nn:Resolution: vote:
	5. **Identification of investment required from OpenWIS Association required to deliver the work plan**
		  1. JT
	7. **Review of Lead Developer role**
		  1. JT
11. **Risk review and development of mitigation plans**
    1. JT
12. **Recommendations to the Board to make and adopt, alter, supplement or repeal the Internal Rules**
    1. **Support for multiple concurrent projects within the OpenWIS governance framework**
        1. JT   
13. **New opportunities for collaboration**
	  1. **Review proposals for projects that are compatible with the purpose and objectives of the OpenWIS Association and in the interest of Members and Partners**
		    1. JT
    2. **Identification of opportunities to participate in calls for proposals in externally funded projects**
        1. JT
    3. **Recommendation to the Board regarding new projects to establish**
        1. JT
14. **Outreach, communications and community**
	  1. **Recommendations to the Board regarding admission of new Partners**
		    1. JT
	  2. **Recommendations to the Board regarding engagement with third-parties to participate in consortia responding to calls for proposals in respect of externally funded projects**
		    1. JT
	  3. **Management of Contributor License Agreements**
            1. See: (http://openwis.github.io/openwis-documentation/rules/A-contributor-license-agreement.html)
            2. JT - MR: Click-thru; jurisdiction - local or Belgian?
            3. JT - Item (15.3.1) 'Example CLA management service': CLA Assistant is an open source project from SAP (see https://github.com/cla-assistant/cla-assistant) that integrates CLA management with GitHub identities and workflow. A hosted instance is provided at https://cla-assistant.io/.
            4. JT - Article 9.7: All member and partner contributors (staff and contractors) must sign the CLA.
    4. **Community growth strategy**
        1. JT
    5. **Communications plan**
        1. JT
    6. **Review need for Community Manager and any other new roles**
        1. JT
15. **Recommendations to the Board regarding the creation of ad-hoc committees or subsidiary bodies**
	  1. JT
16. **Finances of the OpenWIS Association**
	  1. **Challenges arising from existing funding mechanisms**
		    2. MDA
	  2. **Review of need for additional finance**
		    1. JT
	  3. **Preparation of budget for 2017/18**
		    1. JT
	  4. **Budget Recommendations to the Board**
		    2. RES-OWIS-SC-2016-12:Resolution: vote: n-n - in favour - Recommended to Board - an annual budget provision of EUR NN,000.
17. **Any other business**
    1. JT
18. **Summary of recommendations to the Board**
	  1. PR
19. **Closure of the meeting**
	  1. JT

---

Commit message:

Undo corruption
Add Mark F docs and FMI project ref

_minutes/2017-02-23-Agenda-OpenWIS-Steering-Committee-2017-Mar-Toulouse.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Provisional Agenda - OpenWIS Steering Committee 2017 March - Toulouse
---

#### 22nd - 23rd March 2017

---

(The responsibilities of the Steering Committee [SC] are described in Article 13)

1. **Welcome and introductions**
    - JT
2. **Approval of agenda**
	  - JT
3. **Declaration of delegates**
    - PR - Record who is a SC representative and who is an observer and any proxies.
4. **Approval of previous minutes**
    - JT
5. **Outstanding actions**
    - PR - Action Tracker
6. **Election of chairperson ("SC Chair") and vice-chairperson ("SC Vice-Chair") of the Steering Committee (see Article A13.5)**
	  1. JT – request nominees ahead of meeting?
7. **Election of chairperson ("TC-Chair") and vice-chairperson ("TC-Vice-Chair") of the Technical Committee (see Article A14.3)**
	  1. JT – request nominees ahead of meeting?
8. **Recommendations to the Board regarding admission of new Members (see Article 6 and Internal Rule 4)**
	  1. JT
9. **Strategic positioning of OpenWIS Association activities**
    1. **Retrospective review of OpenWIS Association performance since SC-2016, Seoul**
        - WQ
    2. **Review the continuing need for the OpenWIS Association**
        - JT
    3. **How do we see OpenWIS Association evolving?**
        - JT
    4. **Future requirements of WIS Centres**
        1. MF - Future Requirements of WIS Centres -
        [ppt]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/assets/SC201703-Future-requirements-of-WIS-Centres-Toulouse-March-2017.pptx) /
        [pdf]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/assets/SC201703-Future-requirements-of-WIS-Centres-Toulouse-March-2017.pdf)
        2. JT - Evolution of WMO Core Metadata Profile
    5. **Review of Strategic Goals and Metrics (3 year horizon)**
        - JT
    6. **Recommendations to the Board**
        - JT - Medium term goals; 3 year strategy:
10. **Review of recommendations from Technical Committee**
    1. **Report(s) from Technical Committee March 2017, Toulouse, France  - Weiqing Qu, TC Chair**
        1. Review of development over the past year, since Seoul 2016
        2. Proposed work plan for 2017.
	3. **Resolution of issues referred to SC (if any arising)**
		  - JT
	4. **Approval of strategic programme and work plan(s)**
		  1. RES-OWIS-SC-2017-nn:Resolution: vote:
	5. **Identification of investment required from OpenWIS Association required to deliver the work plan**
		  1. JT
	7. **Review of Lead Developer role**
		  1. JT
11. **Risk review and development of mitigation plans**
    1. JT
12. **Recommendations to the Board to make and adopt, alter, supplement or repeal the Internal Rules**
    1. **Support for multiple concurrent projects within the OpenWIS governance framework**
        1. JT   
13. **New opportunities for collaboration**
	  1. **Review proposals for projects that are compatible with the purpose and objectives of the OpenWIS Association and in the interest of Members and Partners**
		    1. JT
        2. MV - FMI Smartmet Server. ([on GitHub:](https://github.com/fmidev/)) and as described [here](https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-server/) and [here](http://www.slideshare.net/tervo/smartmet-server-providing-metocean-data).
            1. does it match the purpose of OpenWIS Association? [1](http://openwis.github.io/openwis-documentation/articles/2-purpose.html#article-2.1)
            2. how / if the project governance could / should be integrated into OpenWIS?  
            3. whether any other Members or Partners want to contribute resources to the project?
    2. **Identification of opportunities to participate in calls for proposals in externally funded projects**
        1. JT
    3. **Recommendation to the Board regarding new projects to establish**
        1. JT
14. **Outreach, communications and community**
	  1. **Recommendations to the Board regarding admission of new Partners**
		    1. JT
	  2. **Recommendations to the Board regarding engagement with third-parties to participate in consortia responding to calls for proposals in respect of externally funded projects**
		    1. JT
	  3. **Management of Contributor License Agreements**
            1. See: (http://openwis.github.io/openwis-documentation/rules/A-contributor-license-agreement.html)
            2. JT - MR: Click-thru; jurisdiction - local or Belgian?
            3. JT - Item (15.3.1) 'Example CLA management service': CLA Assistant is an open source project from SAP (see https://github.com/cla-assistant/cla-assistant) that integrates CLA management with GitHub identities and workflow. A hosted instance is provided at https://cla-assistant.io/.
            4. JT - Article 9.7: All member and partner contributors (staff and contractors) must sign the CLA.
    4. **Community growth strategy**
        1. JT
    5. **Communications plan**
        1. JT
    6. **Review need for Community Manager and any other new roles**
        1. JT
15. **Recommendations to the Board regarding the creation of ad-hoc committees or subsidiary bodies**
	  1. JT
16. **Finances of the OpenWIS Association**
	  1. **Challenges arising from existing funding mechanisms**
		    2. MDA
	  2. **Review of need for additional finance**
		    1. JT
	  3. **Preparation of budget for 2017/18**
		    1. JT
	  4. **Budget Recommendations to the Board**
		    2. RES-OWIS-SC-2016-12:Resolution: vote: n-n - in favour - Recommended to Board - an annual budget provision of EUR NN,000.
17. **Any other business**
    1. JT
18. **Summary of recommendations to the Board**
	  1. PR
19. **Closure of the meeting**
	  1. JT

---
