---
layout: page
title: OpenWIS Steering Committee 2017 March
---

#### 22nd - 23rd March 2017, Toulouse, France - meeting minutes

---

1. **Welcome and introductions**
    1. JT - Welcome everybody.
    2. JT - The agenda is somewhat formulaic, because there are certain things the Steering Committee must discuss at the annual meeting.
    3. JT - Last time we met, in Seoul a year ago, the intention was to have quarterly meetings. That didn't happen, so please accept my apologies. If we think we need a 3 month or 6 month meeting, then we can arrange to hold a meeting remotely.
2. **Approval of agenda**
	  1. JT - Is everyone happy with the agenda?
    2. JT - Noting that we have the flexibility to vary the discussion of some items as we go, the agenda is approved.
    3. JT - Also, we will pause the SC meeting tomorrow at 3pm, to have a couple of hours of the Board Meeting; this is so Emma, our Treasurer, can join us via WebEx.
3. **Declaration of delegates**
    1. JT - Here's reminder of the rules for the SC meeting:
        > A Delegate may represent up to one (1) other Member or Strategic Partner, besides the Member or Strategic Partner which appointed him or her, at a meeting of the Steering Committee. A written proxy, signed by the Member or Strategic Partner giving the proxy, shall be required for that purpose. The represented Member(s) and/or Strategic Partner(s) shall then be considered as present. (Article A13.8)
        > A meeting of the Steering Committee shall be quorate if at least three-quarters of the Members and Strategic Partners are together present. Delegates may be assisted by advisers at meetings of the Steering Committee. (Article A13.9)
        > Except where these Articles of Association require any matter to be decided unanimously, decision and recommendations of the Steering Committee shall be made by simple majority of those Delegates present. Each Delegate shall have one vote. (Article A13.10)
        > Associate  Partners may attend Steering Committee meetings as observers. WMO representatives may attend the Steering Committee meetings as observers to represent the interests of OpenWIS users. Observers may contribute to discussions but have no formal role in making decisions. (Article A13.13)
        > Resolutions and decisions of the Steering Committee shall be recorded in writing and made available to all Delegates. (Rule R8.14)

    2. JT - So, we are quorate, even if WQ can't hear us. Whenever WQ is not on WebEx, MDA is proxy.
    3. {The list of delegates, proxies and other participants is at the foot of these minutes}
4. **Approval of previous minutes**
    1. JT - Any issues with the previous minutes? Hearing none, the previous minutes are approved.
5. **Outstanding actions**
    1. PR - So, just running down the list of SC actions outstanding on 15th March, in reverse order:
        - 2016-32: EE - Check with Michael Robbins for fees related to trademarks.
            1. JT - OPEN - EE will join us for the Board Meeting later, so keep open until then.
        - 2016-31: BB - Will help develop a value proposition.  But I'm not ideal; people in WMO have that experience, so I will ask around to see if I can identify the right.
            1. JT - CLOSED - I will cover this on the agenda.
        - 2016-30: JT - Let's put targeted communications on the agenda for the next SC meeting.
            1. JT - CLOSED - I will cover this on the agenda.
        - 2016-28: JT - To write a strategy paper on: Where we can deliver the most value for the broader community in the near future.
            1. JT - CLOSED - I will cover this on the agenda. I have not written a strategy paper, but that has been overtaken by events around WIS 2.0 strategy recommendations to CBS and anticipated approval by Exec Council. We can add most value by continuing OpenWIS development and contributing to the WIS 2.0 Technical Specifications and running pilot projects.
            2. MDA - Yes, the Association will bring a lot to 2.0.
            3. JT - What is the view from CBS?
            4. MDA - At the CBS last November, a strategy for the development of WIS 2.0 was proposed. During the management meeting a month ago, we looked at the way to implement WIS 2.0. We need a clear understanding of the stakeholders needs and we need to run a pilot project.
            5. MDA - CBS is looking at a project in Region I (Africa) or III (South America), because they are currently less involved in WIS.
            6. MDA - We must be sure to meet the requirements of the [GDPFS](https://www.wmo.int/pages/prog/www/DPFS/Manual_GDPFS.html). There is currently work going on in data processing and it is important that WIS 2.0 meets their requirements so that they don't have to develop further.
            7. MDA - We must be sure WIS 2.0 is the answer to climate system requirements.
        - 2016-26: RGb - Provide to the Association the feedback received so far from users to TC and SC.
            1. LLG - CLOSED - RGb has provided a summary of the [feedback]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/assets/20170314-CUSTOMER-FEATURE-REQUESTS-V01-RG.pptx)
            2. LLG - Several features have been requested, the details are in the powerpoint; for example:
                - Singapore has requested improvements in Security.
                - There are also comments that OpenWIS is not so easy to manage.
            3. MDA - I have been in contact with Moscow; they have tried to use it more, to the full solution, but it is still too complicated for them to manage alone.
            4. I have had an exchange with India, but they are lost with it.
            5. LLG - We worked with Russia in their own framework, so it is a very specific solution. Now, they want a more standard solution; we are in the early discussion stage.
            6. LLG - India is difficult to progress; they are really interested but they are looking at all the options. We will try to discuss in future. Maybe they will be joining the Association? We'll wait and see.
        - 2016-24: LLG â€“ Clarify in the communications plan.
            1. LLG - CLOSED - Apologies, not clear what was expected, so discuss later under the agenda item.
        - 2016-23: RGib - email info about who is using OpenWIS to both TC and SC.
            1. LLG - CLOSED - This is covered in the powerpoint from RGb: [feedback]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/assets/20170314-CUSTOMER-FEATURE-REQUESTS-V01-RG.pptx)
        - 2016-21: JT/PR - Work with Michael to determine legal validity in all territories of a click-through online CLA - and validity under Belgian law.  Refer to legal contact of IRM?
            1. JT - CLOSED - I discussed it with Michael, but anyway the current process doesn't use a click-thru.
        - 2016-20: JT/PR - Talk to Michael Robbins about whether an umbrella agreement would have legal standing.
            1. JT - CLOSED - The assumption is that one umbrella agreement covers all contributors from an organisation, as stated in Annex A to the Internal Rules:
            > 'You' (or 'Your') shall mean the copyright owner or legal entity authorized by the copyright owner that is making this Agreement with the OpenWIS Association AISBL. For legal entities, the entity making a Contribution and all other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity are considered to be a single Contributor.

            2. JT - So basically, an organisation is a single contributor.
        - 2016-19: RGr - Investigate appetite for a project proposal with DWD.
            1. RGr - CLOSED - This was in relation to AFD. I exchanged a couple of emails. It's the tool we're using in the cloud-project. Should I continue? Last year we approved multiple projects in principle.
        - 2016-18: MDA - Find out if NMS Canada is interested in bringing MetPX under the OpenWIS umbrella.
            1. MDA - CLOSED - I discussed MetPX with Michel Jean. I also discussed Canada as Associate Partner. The discussions stopped because there is a new CIO in Canada. But they are happy to put MetPX in.
        - 2016-17: WQ - To do a project proposal relating an investigation work package for the OpenWIS Core.
            1. WQ - CLOSED - Done nothing apart from what we did in OpenWIS development. (Will be covered by v5 PoC later)
        - 2016-16: JT - Clarify articles that may appear to force other people to pay for your project.
            1. JT - CLOSED - If you recall last year's discussion, we were talking about the meaning of the **equal contributions** clauses, Articles 10.2 and 10.3. These clauses are about finances for running the Association, not for running projects. We can use these contributions to provide tools, but not to cover costs of software development for a project. So, we can cover the costs of Association websites, repositories etc.
            2. JT - The SC must make a budget recommendation to the Board for approval, so we have mechanisms in place to ensure sensible decisions are made about what Association contributions are spent on.
            3. MDA - But how can I be sure that MF is not obliged to contribute to a project it is not interested in?
            4. JT - Because there is _no_ obligation. I will update the Internal Rules to clarify this, by Friday. I will summarise my proposed changes when we cover new projects.
            5. MDA - The action was to check.
            6. JT - Yes and the only binding thing is equal contributions to the Association, which the Board have to approve anyway.
        - 2016-15: WQ(TC) - Define the roles in the development process - see JT doc.
            1. WQ - CLOSED - This was discussed at the Developer Conference and documented since. We discussed it further during the TC.
            2. JT - Ok, we should update the Technical Rules to clarify the roles now used in the development process.
                - SO - [Action-SC-2017-01 Update Technical Rules to clarify roles](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/172)
        - 2016-14: PR - RISK for Board Risk Register - That the articles of the Association are not fit for purpose regarding, particularly:
            - Article 14.1 Architecture role of TC,
            - Article 9.1 No mention of contributors,
            - Article 21.2 Indemnity of partners and contributors.
            1. JT - Ok, so we keep this open until we have a Board Risk Register.
                - PR - [Action-SC-2016-14 Add new risks to Risk Register](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/170)
        - 2016-13: JT (through Michael Robbins) get legal advice on whether the articles shelter the contributors from litigation.
            1. JT - I did discuss this with Michael but I don't recall the conclusion. Article 21.2 does say 'that no _member_ can be held personally liable', but it doesn't mention _partners_ and _contributors_. Need to bottom that out and add to Risk register. May need to update the Articles.
                - JT - [Action-SC-2016-13 Seek legal advice on shelter from litigation](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/171)
        - 2016-12: JT - Make sure the role of User is clear in the internal rules.
            1. JT - CLOSED - I've been through the Internal Rules and Articles; there is no mention of _User(s)_.
            2. JT - So when we update the Technical Rules, the _User_ role should be defined.
                - SO - [Action-SC-2017-02 Update Technical Rules to define 'User'](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/173)
        - 2016-08: MDA/JT will award Leon a certificate as formal recognition of his contribution.
            1. MDA - CLOSED - Apologies, this slipped out of my mind.
            2. WQ - We cannot accept a financial reward. I did mention that the SC and Board were appreciative.
            3. MDA - In WMO you have this celebration where outstanding work is rewarded.
        - 2016-04: WQ - TC to agree lifecycle patching strategy.
            1. WQ - We addressed this to some extent in Seoul. Did we cover it with the even/odd Release number?
            2. JT - No, the patch is the 3rd digit, for example 3.14.**8**. When we talk about the TC work plan we need to say how we will respond to security issues and do a patch release. SO, is that sufficient?
            3. SO - Yes, that makes sense.
            4. WQ - CLOSED - Ok, yes, we did have a patch release, 3.14.6, for the XSS vulnerability. That is the patching strategy.
        - 2016-03: WQ â€“ TC to define 'patchable'.
            1. PR - CLOSED - Originally this meant in Goal/Metric 1.2
            2. KS - We need to be able to patch Java etc.; it's a big concern for us.
            3. JT - Do you want a change to the Technical Rules? Ask your Security folks what they mean by _patchable_ and then add that to the rules.
                - SO - [Action-SC-2017-03 Define 'patchable'](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/174)
        - 2016-02: WQ â€“ Define 'good test coverage' as a percentage (with TC).
            1. WQ - Does this mean in our own code?
            2. JT - Yes, move away from a subjective definition of 'good' to something measureable. So put objective metrics of test coverage in the Technical Rules. We have improved, but there is always room for further improvement, so we just need a guideline.
                - SO - [Action-SC-2017-04 Add test coverage metrics to Technical Rules](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/175)
            3. LLG - I don't know if we have a pragmatic software quality statement.
            4. SO - We need to identify that, we don't have it now.
            5. JT - So, we need a good objective definition of software quality.
            6. WQ - We got the current software from AKKA, but now we could put the quality rules in place at the start. So now we are suggesting we put something explicit in the Technical Rules.
                - SO - [Action-SC-2017-05 Add software quality statement to Technical Rules](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/176)
            7. JT - Do SC want to approve or review the software quality statements or are we content to let the TC handle it?
            8. LLG - It should be light-weight, although it is very technical. A general overview approved by SC perhaps?
            9. WQ - Do the Technical Rules have the same authority as the Internal Rules?
            10. JT - Internal Rule 11 talks about Technical Rules. It says the TC shall make Technical Rules, it doesn't say the SC approves them.
            11. MDA - I think that's right; SC only needs to be aware of the changes.
            12. JT - Would be nice if the TC report back on progress with the Technical Rules and objective measures definitions.
                - SO - [Action-SC-2017-06 Report to SC on quality measures](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/177)
6. **Election of chairperson ("SC Chair") and vice-chairperson ("SC Vice-Chair") of the Steering Committee (see Article A13.5)**
	  1. JT â€“ I have nominated myself as SC Chair for a further term. Are there any other nominations?
    2. JT - Hearing none.
    3. JT - Nominations for SC Vice-Chair?
    4. LLG - RGr, do you wish to be SC Vice-Chair?
    5. RGr - Yes.
    6. MDA - Ok, I thank LLG for the great job he has done for us as SC Vice-Chair. I now nominate RGr as Vice-Chair.
    7. JT - Vice-Chair needs to be one of the delegates, so RGr would replace MDA as SC delegate; Ok?
    8. MDA - Ok.
    9. JT - It comes into force 30 days later, so MDA, you are still the delegate for this meeting.
    10. JT - We also note that Sungsoo Do has replaced Okki Lee as both the TC and SC delegate for KMA (by prior email).
    11. JT - Any more nominations? Ok, hearing none, let's vote.
    12. Vote:
			1. RES-OWIS-SC-2017-01:Resolution: vote: 7-0 in favour - JT is elected as SC-Chair. OWIS-RES
			2. RES-OWIS-SC-2017-02:Resolution: vote: 7-0 in favour - RGr is elected as SC-Vice-Chair. OWIS-RES
7. **Election of chairperson ("TC-Chair") and vice-chairperson ("TC-Vice-Chair") of the Technical Committee (see Article A14.3)**
	  1. JT â€“ In terms of nominations so far, WQ has withdrawn, so thank you WQ for all your efforts and dedication as Chair of the TC for the last few years.
    2. JT - I have one nomination, for TC-Chair or TC-Vice-Chair: SO
    3. JT - Are there any other nominations?
    4. SO - I spoke to LM and he said he would stand for TC-Vice-Chair, so I nominate LM.
    5. JT - Any more nominations? Hearing none, let's vote.
    6. Vote:
			1. RES-OWIS-SC-2017-03:Resolution: vote: 7-0 in favour - SO is elected as TC-Chair. OWIS-RES
			2. RES-OWIS-SC-2017-04:Resolution: vote: 7-0 in favour - LM is elected as TC-Vice-Chair. OWIS-RES
8. **Recommendations to the Board regarding admission of new Members (see Article 6 and Internal Rule 4)**
	  1. JT - So where are we with the ECMWF partnership?
        1. BR - We have the budget. Our lawyer has returned the contract to RGr and Michael Robbins.
    2. JT - And what about Indian Met Department (IMD)?
        1. MDA - I have nothing to add to what I said before about the contact with IMD.
    3. MDA - Also, I mentioned Canada earlier.
    4. MDA - I have been in contact with the Chinese Meteorological Administration (CMA). They are trying to send a person to work with us at MF for 6 months, to see if they want to join for work on WIS 2.0, from July until the year end.
        1. JT - Interesting that they are identifying that new work is to be done and that OpenWIS is a place to do it.
    5. MDA - I had discussions with IMD at CBS and email exchanges since, but what they really want is someone to install the software for them. I explained that is not the role of the Association.
    6. MDA - Environment Canada discussions started last year, but I have not met the new CIO (of one or two months). Michel Jean (Director General) is willing to join but I need to meet the CIO.
    7. KS - Do we know at what level?
        1. MDA - Canada - Associate; CMA - Strategic.
    8. KS - Our experience with IMD is that we went and installed the system for them.
    9. KS - Is Canada looking for a DCPC?
        1. MDA - Yes, a DCPC.
    10. Anyone aware of any other potential new partners? Ok, none.
    11. JT - So, we need to make recommendations to the Board.
    12. JT - Last year we recommended that ECMWF be allowed to join as an Associate Partner.
        1. RGr - Michael Robbins prepared the draft contract and it was sent to ECMWF. There were a few comments from the ECMWF lawyer, but it's all legalise. {RGr referenced a CONFIDENTIAL document, not copied here}
    13. JT - OK, so there are no new recommendations for Partners.
    14. JT - Also, we are not recommending any changes from Partners to Members.
    15. JT - Ok, let's look at the ECMWF Partner Agreement.
        1. RGr - Most comments are legal, so I am unable to say whether Gregor or Michael is right.
        2. JT - Can we get Gregor and Michael to discuss online?
            - RGr - [Action-SC-2017-07 Finalise the ECMWF agreement](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/178)
        3. RGr - So, regarding the interpretation, isn't it the view of the SC that counts?
        4. BR - So, don't we just need another iteration?
        5. JT - The work plan is the Kanban board.
        6. RGr - Regarding 4.4, is the SC accepting that suggested change and change to the Internal Rules?
        7. JT - There is nothing in the Articles that says a partner can leave. So, let's amend Internal Rule 5 to make that clearer.
            - JT - [Action-SC-2017-08 Clarify that a Partner can leave](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/179)
        8. RGr - Regarding 9.1/9.2, there is a question about VAT.
            1. MDA - The annual contribution is 10k Euros; would ECMWF pay less if they had to pay tax?
            2. RGr - So the 10k Euros is without VAT?
            3. MDA - Talk to the tax expert about what tax might be due and ask about the specific ECMWF case.
                - RGr - [Action-SC-2017-09 Clarify ECMWF taxes](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/180)
            4. RGr - We also need an email from ECMWF to say that they will be paying on an annual basis.
                - BR - [Action-SC-2017-10 Formalise ECMWF payment option](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/181)
        9. RGr - Regarding 12.2.4?
            1. MDA - ...currently twice... Ok, escalate to the Board meeting.
        10. RGr - Regarding 19.1, that is answered by Michael.
        11. RGr - Regarding 22.2, escalate to the Board meeting.
        12. RGr - Regarding 23.2, escalate to the Board meeting.
9. **Strategic positioning of OpenWIS Association activities**
    1. **Retrospective review of OpenWIS Association performance since SC-2016, Seoul**
        1. JT - It is the role of the SC to prioritise the programme of work for the Association. The TC say what to do; the Board approve.
        2. JT - Last year we said:
            1. OpenWIS v3.14 would be released in April 2016.
            2. OpenWIS v4 would be released in March 2017.
            3. {For details of how that went, please refer to the report from the TC at section 10.1}
        3. JT - So we have a solid 3.14 release that has been approved for deployment in 2 organisations. Congratulations to the technical team.
        4. JT - We have gone open source; we have opened the repositories and declared a license.
        5. JT - We have brought the complementary tool _excel2wis_ into the repository.
        6. JT - We have established the foundations for OpenWIS4 using Core GeoNetworkv3. Any comments DW?
        7. DW - As NM said, the more we layer onto Core-GeoNetwork, the more complex it gets. So we should use Core-GeoNetwork as much as possible.
        8. SO - We hope the GeoNetwork community will be cordial and excited about our proposed changes.
        9. JT - It would be useful to send somebody to the annual Core GeoNetwork meeting.
        10. JT - We've revamped the website so that all the rules and project stuff are visible.  And we will have the Forum soon.
        11. JT - We have drastically improved the system architecture, although there is still work to do.
        12. JT - And there is more to do on distributed development, though we have made progress. The team was fragmented in Melbourne, 2 years ago, and not understanding what each other wanted. Since Seoul we're more organised and still getting better. I am happy to point people to OpenWIS to show how to do distributed development.
        13. MF - At the GISC-WISC meeting in Melbourne recently, there was recognition that the Association is a success at working together.
    2. **Review the continuing need for the OpenWIS Association**
        - JT
    3. **How do we see OpenWIS Association evolving?**
        - JT
    4. **Future requirements of WIS Centres**
        1. MF - Future Requirements of WIS Centres -
        [ppt]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/assets/SC201703-Future-requirements-of-WIS-Centres-Toulouse-March-2017.pptx) /
        [pdf]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/assets/SC201703-Future-requirements-of-WIS-Centres-Toulouse-March-2017.pdf)
        2. JT - Evolution of WMO Core Metadata Profile
    5. **Review of Strategic Goals and Metrics (3 year horizon)**
        - JT
    6. **Recommendations to the Board**
        - JT - Medium term goals; 3 year strategy:
10. **Review of recommendations from Technical Committee**
    1. **Report(s) from Technical Committee March 2017, Toulouse, France**
        1. SO - Development
            1. The first release of v3.14 was v3.14.1 in January 2016, with the first stable release v3.14.5 in April 2016. The latest release is v3.14.7, which was released in November 2016. We are currently working on a v3.14.8 and after that we are ready to put v3.14 into maintenance mode.
            2. We have also been working on a development release of OpenWISv4 and a first version of that, OpenWIS v4.0.0, is now out and available as a demo instance.
            3. We held a Developer Conference in Washington DC in September 2016, where we formulated a better structure for the website and a package for an open source release (v3.14.7). We went open source in November 2016 with the package and improved website and announced that at CBS.
        2. SO - Operations
            1. Most centres are running v3.12 or 3.13, with 2 centres running v3.14.
            2. From the survey we find that the difficulty of the security service installation is a common issue.
            3. Most centres are taking over a week to do a full install, although the 2 centres using _puppet_ have got this down to a couple of hours.
        3. SO - Proposed work plan for 2017
            1. For OpenWISv4 we are adopting an Overlay approach to the integration of Core GeoNetwork v3 into OpenWISv4.
            2. This will require some training and up-skilling. We have put the Developer Conference for 2017 on hold; we will do some training in the new techniques and then evaluate what the Developer Conference would cover.
            3. At the Developer Conference in 2016 we did a loose compliance check against the 1.0 Technical Specifications; we plan to develop formal tests for this, during this coming year.
            4. We discussed improvements to the development processes, including the introduction of _squads_ and _features_ and the level of engagement we might need with the Core GeoNetwork community. We also discussed how we would deal with external open source contributions and we will update the SC on that later.
            5. We have completed the trial of Forum software options and have chosen _Discourse_, so we will set that up. There will be a small ongoing cost to support that.
            6. We are also looking for continuing financial support for the development platforms, for example the MF servers.
            7. We also decided to continue with the AWS CI environment and to adapt it for use with OpenWISv4.
            8. Currently, we are planning a development release of OpenWISv4 (OpenWIS v4.1), by September 2017, followed by a stable release v4.2 in January 2018, for operations by March 2018.
            9. We ran a workshop session that generated a prioritised list of work items and we expect to start allocating the work at the next TC meeting.
        4. SO - Future strategy for OpenWIS-Core
            1. We have discussed how we would move forward from OpenWISv4/GeoNetworkv3 to take advantage of newer technologies, by considering an OpenWISv5 proof-of-concept developed for us by NM.
            2. One aspect we want advice from the SC on is: how much time we spend on OpenWISv4 versus OpenWISv5?
        5. SO - New projects
            1. MF presented on their _excel2wis_ tool for generation of metadata, which we are recommending the SC adopt as a second Association project.
            2. MF also presented their work on Harnesses and we are recommending that we adopt a common approach to development of Harness components.
        6. JT - So if we look back over the past year, how do you think the technical group have performed?
            1. SO - Been a strong year. We've worked through a number of issues. Bringing European Dynamics on-board has also been a strength and a good path forward.
	3. **Resolution of issues referred to SC (if any arising)**
		  - JT
	4. **Approval of strategic programme and work plan(s)**
      1. JT - Looking forward, we are establishing _feature-driven_ development.
      2. PR - Which will be a small change, just a slightly enhanced use of Kanban and GitHub.
      3. JT - I propose that we draw a line under OpenWISv3. If a security issue arises we will patch it, but it is in maintenance mode.
      4. MDA - Have you been through the requirements and checked there are no critical issues?
      5. WQ - We would fix any new critical issues in OpenWISv4, except for security issues.
      6. DW - Some improvements in OpenWISv4 might be backward-compatible.
      7. WQ - That would be a bonus.
      8. DW - So v3.14.8 will be the maintenance release, the latest.
      9. WQ - v3.14 was mainly an uplift of the middleware, no real new functionality or features.
      10. SO - The open source release (v3.14.7) did include the patch for Java.
      11. JT - The PMC/TC is responsible for identifying when a patch release is required and coordinating that activity.
      12. PR - v3.14.8 also contains the last updates from MF. The ForgeRock issue is not a blocker; we will work around that, make the release and then put 3.14 into maintenance mode.
          - SO - [Action-SC-2017-11 Put v3.14 into maintenance mode](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/182)
      13. JT - So, on to OpenWISv4 then. We said a development release in September and an operational release in calendar Q1 2018.
      14. JT - There are significant deployment implications then for operational WIS centres, around the new Core-GeoNetwork and other changes.
      15. JT - We've mentioned things like bulk-subscriptions and containerisation, but what functional improvements are actually planned?
      16. DW - They are listed in the output from the TC workshop.
      17. SO - The list is on GitHub: [OpenWIS4 issues](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis4/issues). There are about 95 issues and we prioritised about 11 of them (labelled MUST).
      18. WQ - Sorry, I couldn't attend the workshop, but I have some thoughts to add on this.
      19. WQ - Personally, I would go further with maintenance mode. I am encouraged by the v5 architecture discussion. Given the issues with Core GeoNetworkv3, JBoss etc, it's still probably worthwhile doing a _minimum viable product_ (MVP) version of OpenWIS4, so that we get some improvements, like bulk-subscriptions. So, release one version of OpenWIS4 at the end of this year and then look at OpenWISv5, starting early next year and, by the end of 2018, have an architecture like the one NM presented. Maybe a bit aggressive, but why put all that effort into v4 if we not using it for very long? Think of the features we really want, in v5. What is the feeling of the floor?
      20. DW - v4 is a waste.
      21. MDA - A v5 meeting the future requirements of WIS?
      22. WQ - A bit of both. We don't have new requirements yet, but we can see some of them. By doing v5 we can shape the requirements.
      23. JT - I wanted to discuss as well... we keep talking about v4, v5 and WIS 2.0, but what do they each support? I came here thinking v5 was for WIS 2.0 and v4 will only support the existing Technical Specifications. If we stop working on v4 then centres will have new requirements coming up but we wouldn't deliver until v5.
      24. JT - I propose recognizing the NM architecture proposal and that under a v5 project we do a pilot implementation of what we anticipate the WIS 2.0 Technical Specifications will look like. After January, we take what we learned from the v5 pilots and port that to v4. So v4 will support existing Technical Specifications, v4 never will.
      25. WQ - The basic WIS functions will still remain.
      26. NM - Because v4 and v5 are very different, any v4 work won't be reusable, except, perhaps, a small percentage. If we want something to support the current Technical Specifications then the closest we have is v4.
      27. NM - We can anticipate v5. The question is, how do we want to balance the work between v4 and v5?
      28. Also, v4 is someone else's product that we have modified; v5 would belong to the Association.
      29. JT - So we can't easily port v5 to v4?
      30. NM - Correct.
      31. LLG - Also, the other way.
      32. MDA - It's not clear to me what is v4, what is v5.
      33. KS - v4 is continuation of the current architecture and Technical Specifications; v5 is new Technical Specifications, what we think we know, plus a new architecture.
      34. DW - If WIS 1.0 isn't like WIS 2.0 then working on WIS 1.0 stuff is a waste of time, unless WIS 1.0 is in WIS 2.0.
      35. KS - Yeah.
      36. WQ - My point as well. I'm pretty sure the v5 architecture can satisfy both WIS 1.0 and WIS 2.0 Technical Specifications.
      37. KS - The good bits of WIS 1.0 would be in WIS 2.0.
      38. RGr - We haven't yet the Technical Specifications of WIS 2.0. The ideas around WIS 2.0 are completely different. Right now we have a bit of metadata and a huge part of data in it. In WIS 2.0 we will move away from the data we have now. I can't imagine having bulk-subscriptions in WIS 2.0, so that would be a waste.
      39. RGr - Ok, it's a gamble, but ideas are so different that I don't think we can count on reuse of v4 in v5, except some metadata; cache etc. will disappear.
      40. BR - From a pure development point of view, with a micro-services architecture you can change services easily, so why not start that approach in v4?
      41. NM - The problem is the missing back-end. v3 is what you used up to now. v4 is the back-end Data Services with a new front-end from Core GeoNetworkv3. So we took an external project (GeoNetworkv3) and added the v3 Data Services and then called it v4. The coding was mainly glue. From now on we have to work on fixing the 95 issues. All those fixes are trying to make Core GeoNetworkv3 compatible with our needs.
      42. NM - So with v4 we aren't starting from scratch and doing micro-services. If we wanted to start that architecture right now we would develop the v5 micro-services architecture to support the current Technical Specifications and change later to support the 2.0 Technical Specifications.
      43. LLG - Will v5 use Core GeoNetwork?
      44. NM - No, we replace many of the functions of Core GeoNetwork.
      45. JT - Metadata management is quite heavy-weight.
      46. WQ - We are working with the v4 architecture for about a year now and it is almost incompatible; you wouldn't choose to marry them together. Once you have the new v5 architecture you have more light-weight services and a lot of benefits from that.
      47. WQ - If you are asking me to spend more energy on v4... well, we still need to maintain it, but do the minimum.
      48. WQ - Maybe we go straight to v5? Probably a step too far. But, go to v5 as soon as possible, do current Technical Specifications and then do the future Technical Specifications as they appear. The technology we looked at for v5 addresses all the WIS 2.0 ideas.
      49. JT - So, the key point appears to be: get onto the new architecture as soon as possible and use it to support both the old and new Technical Specifications.
      50. MDA - So are we adding to Core GeoNetwork?
      51. JT - Yes, cache, Data Management, etc.
      52. MDA - v5 start from scratch, but with Core GeoNetwork for metadata?
      53. JT - But ultimately the metadata won't look like it does now, ISO etc. But we do need to support operations for the next 5 years and we don't know yet how we will make the change.
      54. NM - We won't need Core GeoNetwork, we'll have our own harvesting etc.
      55. MDA - have you looked at the cost?
      56. NM - No.
      57. MDA - That is key.
      58. SO - There isn't a simple way forward, so we may need to proceed carefully. There will be such a paradigm shift that we need to consider training etc. We want it to be successful and demonstrate how you move from this environment to that environment.
      59. JT - Ok, to summarise...
      60. JT - The question is: how do we transition from v4 and existing Technical Specifications to, in at least 4 years time, WIS 2.0 with new Technical Specifications?
      61. JT - The proposal from the TC is to make significant architecture improvements to support the anticipated WIS 2.0 Technical Specifications.
      62. JT - The challenge is to determine how to make the transition.
      63. JT - Yesterday, we agreed to start a new project to develop our ideas on WIS 2.0.
      64. JT - Constraints:
          1. WIS 2.0 Technical Specifications will not be approved until 2020.
          2. So we need to support the WIS 1.0 Technical Specifications for 4 years.
      65. JT - WQ, your aspiration was for an OpenWISv4 MVP, followed as soon as possible by a move to the new architecture, while still meeting current Technical Specifications.
      66. WQ - Yes.
      67. JT - And as new Technical Specifications evolve we would add them into the system, which would be highly componentised.
      68. NM - That would be much easier in the v5 architecture than in the v4.
      69. WQ - Yes and it would also save some effort overall.
      70. JT - I want to ask each of the delegates what their position is... do we all understand the proposal from WQ?
      71. NM - Do we need to define the MVP for v4? How much work would it be?
      72. WQ - The TC discussed having a v4 release by calendar Q1 2018. The most important things are on the Kanban and issues tracker. We would get them fixed; no more new stuff.
      73. JT - So we're continuing with Core GeoNetwork, looking at priority issues, about a dozen?
      74. PR - If you define the MVP as the list of issues we labelled as MUST in the workshop: [MUST](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis4/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AMUST), there are currently 13. But that won't be all we have to do. We have to adapt to using some of the new Core GeoNetworkv3 features, we said we will do compliance testing and anyway, general testing will throw up new issues.
      75. DW - And there are some missing features that need to be put on top, stuff AKKA put into GeoNetworkv2. We don't know what all of these are, but things like Data Access Policies.
      76. JT - So we need further analysis to identify all that other work.
          - SO - [Action-SC-2017-21 Feature comparison for v3 vs v4](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/192)
      77. JT - So let me play that back. The MVP is defined as:
          1. Core GeoNetworkv3
          2. Fixes for the priority issues (MUST)
          3. Fixes for any non-compliance
          4. Anything else v3 has that we need to put back into v4.
      78. JT - The roadmap aims for calendar Q1 2018 to deliver that.
      79. WQ - Yes.
      80. JT - Does anybody feel we shouldn't do at least that?
      81. DW - The less complicated security services is a benefit; so are the new features of Core GeoNetworkv3 that we want. But there aren't that many, so it's not that much different from v3. So why not just improve v3?
      82. BS - Because we are waiting for the better metadata discovery features in Core GeoNetworkv3.
      83. DW - Ok. There is still work to be done there; I like the new tree feature too, but it's not sufficient.
      84. BS - So this is part of the gap. So, BS, for you the new interface is important.
      85. MDA - Sorry, which version?
      86. JT - The new Core GeoNetwork is version 3, which we will use as part of OpenWIS version 4, to support Technical Specifications version 1.0.
      87. SO - Let's frame the question: are we talking about how much to include in OpenWIS v4.2?
      88. JT - Yes, so spend 1 year on an OpenWISv4 MVP; is this the minimum we should do?
      89. SO - Most of the top issues were well aligned from the four workshop teams, so yes, that's the bare minimum.
      90. DW - There are other things missing that will need to be fixed. Features that were in Core GeoNetworkv2 but are not in Core GeoNetworkv3: stop-gap metadata, synchronisation, reporting. Do we need these? So we might go backwards in some areas, but ok, it depends how important they are. We have the MF excel2wis metadata tool, so maybe we use that. Do we need the Alerts Page? We do need a way of alerting the System Admin.
      91. SO - A couple of things come into play here:
          1. Even though we are event driven, we are fixing the release date.
          2. We are aligning to squads and features. A new approach with some unknowns, but possibly quicker results. I am hoping the developer pool will be larger.
      92. PR - We'll see where we are when we've delivered the training.
      93. JT - Because we're agile, we have scheduled delivery, so we'll release in September and January, if we're willing to spend one year to get to MVP.
      94. MDA - So we'll have a version 4 which is considered better, but it may not have all the features of version 3?
      95. RGr - MVP equals comply with Technical Specifications 1.0.
      96. JT - Yes.
      97. DW - Some compliance will be added.
      98. RGr - No, we have been audited and we are compliant.
      99. RGr - So, what is the cost?
      100. MDA - I don't know where we are with OpenWISv4; near the end or near the beginning?
      101. PR - There is not much more to do that is entirely new. We developed much of the functionality we need to add to Core-GeoNetwork with GeoCat. It's just that we didn't like the way they did it, so we developed the Overlay approach to give us more independence from the GeoNetwork code and community.
      102. NM - The overlay approach allows independence from Core-GeoNetwork, but it adds some complexity, so if we throw it away in one year, it's not worth it.
      103. MDA - We're not throwing it away in one year. I don't understand what is missing and what is the cost.
      104. JT - I don't believe the TC has estimates for the tasks in the MVP.
      105. NM - If we want to develop v5 then we will throw away v4.
      106. MDA - We may consider v5 if you prove that v5 is a lot cheaper than v4 and that we can have it in less time.
      107. JT - Continuing with v4 is one of our options. We don't have a cost estimate for that.
          - SO - [Action-SC-2017-22 v4 MVP cost estimate](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/193)
      108. JT - If we continue with v4 then we start the new architecture later.
      109. WQ - The current v3 is still our operational system.
      110. JT - So v3 is still our flagship.
      111. WQ - Yes.
      112. JT - So, there may be some v3 maintenance. Can we afford v3 maintenance, v4 development and investigating the new architecture all at the same time?
      113. WQ - So after calendar Q1 next year, v4 is operational and maintenance mode; so that is when we start investigating the new architecture.
      114. JT - So if we choose to develop v4, we have to postpone new architecture work for a year.
      115. MDA - What about the option to forget v4?
      116. JT - Could we get an MVP based on the new architecture in one year?
      117. RGr - No. We have been working on v4 for two years, so v5 in a year is a dream.
      118. MDA - So can we develop v3 further?
      119. WQ - It doesn't look good if, as an open source project, we don't have a new version.
      120. WQ - Regarding whether we can have v5 in a year, I don't know, but we can't compare it with the OpenWIS we have now, that took 10 years. Now, using micro-services, it is much quicker to develop due to technology advances. We probably can, but can't guarantee.
      121. MDA - But how long would it take to define, 1 year, 2 years?
      122. WQ - We already have a definition, based on the current system. We could make a v5 that does just what the v3 system does now.
      123. MDA - So in 12 months we could have a new system?
      124. WQ - Yes and it could be better.
      125. DW - It would help if we all saw NM presentation.
      126. MDA - Yes, let's see the presentation.
      127. NM presented [OpenWIS5]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/assets/TC201703-OpenWIS5v2.pdf)
      128. JT - We said we would have finished v4 by now, 2 years ago, but, we only finished v3.14 six months ago, so we've spent most of our time and effort on that.
      129. JT - So let's summarise the options:
          1. Option 1:
              - continue developing v3
              - stop working on v4
              - develop WIS 2.0 pilots in new architecture and evolve pilots to meet WIS 2.0 Technical Specifications circa 2020.
          2. Option 2:
              - put v3 into maintenance mode
              - develop v4 on Core GeoNetworkv3
              - develop new architecture for the WIS 2.0 Technical Specifications
          3. Option 3:
              - put v3 into maintenance mode
              - work on v4 MVP for 1 year
              - then develop new architecture for WIS 1.0 Technical Specifications
              - then evolve that to support WIS 2.0 Technical Specifications
          4. Option 4:
              - put v3 into maintenance mode
              - stop working on v4
              - develop MVP on new architecture in 1 year and release
              - evolve that to meet WIS 2.0 Technical Specifications
              - wouldn't need to be MVP, just functional release in 12 months
      130. MP - When will the WIS 2.0 Tech Specifications be ready?
      131. JT - 2020-2022; having WIS 2.0 as the Technical Specifications for exchange.
      132. RGr - The WIS 1.0 software will survive until at least 2025.
      133. MDA - I am expecting to have a software starting to be used by 2020.
      134. JT - The Implementation Team, that I am running, are trying for an incremental implementation plan.
      135. RGr - So, there is going to be a transition or migration over some years.
      136. PR - So we will have software that can support both WIS 1.0 and 2.0 and is upgraded as things change.
      137. JT - I think Option 3 is too many architectural changes in 2 years.
      138. {Everyone agreed - Option 3 is removed}
      139. JT - Option 1 doesn't deliver new user features for 4 years.
      140. JT - Option 4 has more risk associated with it because of the new architecture. However, WQ and ourselves both said we're already working on these architectures elsewhere, so that's ok.
      141. KS - How compatible is Option 4 with the squad system?
      142. PR - It's compatible.
      143. MDA - Squads?
      144. PR - An improvement to the development process we discussed at the TC. It helps to focus on delivering finished features by assigning each feature to a to sub-team.
      145. MDA - What is the benefit of having a v4?
      146. WQ - Are Options 1 and 4 almost the same?
      147. DW - In Option 1 we continue v3 development, but in Option 4 we develop v5.
      148. RGr - The main difference is that you consider v5 is not compliant with WIS 1.0 in Option 1, but in Option 4 it is also compliant with both. We don't know how much of the current Technical Specifications we are going to keep.
      149. WQ - I don't think that is true. We will do things that will work with both and we do know what some of the ideas are; it will not ne totally different.
      150. DW - v5 with WIS 1.0 requirements, new architecture, with indication of new 2.0 Technical Specifications. v4 will all be thrown away, so with v5 we throw less away.
      151. JT - In Option 4 we may use vanilla Core-GeoNetwork as a stand alone editor, but it is integrated with the new architecture. So, some design work to get the MVP on the new architecture.


		  1. RES-OWIS-SC-2017-nn:Resolution: vote:
	5. **Identification of investment required from OpenWIS Association required to deliver the work plan**
		  1. JT - Can we summarise the key budget recommendations so far?
          1. JT - MF servers = 1700 Euros per year.
          2. JT - Do we need to renew the domain name?
          3. LLG - Yes, we do every year and we did it 3 months ago.
          4. JT - Domain name = 150 Euros per year.
          5. JT - AWS = 2000 USD per year.
          6. JT - Discourse hosting = ? To be confirmed.
          7. JT - Are there any others?
          8. SO - No.
          9. JT - Last year we said we would hire a Technical Author, but we didn't so we paid nothing for that.
          10. SO - I don't think we need that at this time.
          11. JT - So that's all the costs to run the Association?
          12. SO - Yep.
	7. **Review of Lead Developer role**
		  1. JT
11. **Risk review and development of mitigation plans**
    1. JT
12. **Recommendations to the Board to make and adopt, alter, supplement or repeal the Internal Rules**
    1. **Support for multiple concurrent projects within the OpenWIS governance framework**
        1. JT
13. **New opportunities for collaboration**
	  1. **Review proposals for projects that are compatible with the purpose and objectives of the OpenWIS Association and in the interest of Members and Partners**
		    1. JT
        2. MV - FMI Smartmet Server. ([on GitHub:](https://github.com/fmidev/)) and as described [here](https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-server/) and [here](http://www.slideshare.net/tervo/smartmet-server-providing-metocean-data).
            1. does it match the purpose of OpenWIS Association? [1](http://openwis.github.io/openwis-documentation/articles/2-purpose.html#article-2.1)
            2. how / if the project governance could / should be integrated into OpenWIS?
            3. whether any other Members or Partners want to contribute resources to the project?
    2. **Identification of opportunities to participate in calls for proposals in externally funded projects**
        1. JT
    3. **Recommendation to the Board regarding new projects to establish**
        1. JT
14. **Outreach, communications and community**
	  1. **Recommendations to the Board regarding admission of new Partners**
		    1. JT
	  2. **Recommendations to the Board regarding engagement with third-parties to participate in consortia responding to calls for proposals in respect of externally funded projects**
		    1. JT
	  3. **Management of Contributor License Agreements**
            1. See: (http://openwis.github.io/openwis-documentation/rules/A-contributor-license-agreement.html)
            2. JT - MR: Click-thru; jurisdiction - local or Belgian?
            3. JT - Item (15.3.1) 'Example CLA management service': CLA Assistant is an open source project from SAP (see https://github.com/cla-assistant/cla-assistant) that integrates CLA management with GitHub identities and workflow. A hosted instance is provided at https://cla-assistant.io/.
            4. JT - Article 9.7: All member and partner contributors (staff and contractors) must sign the CLA.
    4. **Community growth strategy**
        1. JT
    5. **Communications plan**
        1. JT
    6. **Review need for Community Manager and any other new roles**
        1. JT
15. **Recommendations to the Board regarding the creation of ad-hoc committees or subsidiary bodies**
	  1. JT
16. **Finances of the OpenWIS Association**
	  1. **Challenges arising from existing funding mechanisms**
		    2. MDA
	  2. **Review of need for additional finance**
		    1. JT
	  3. **Preparation of budget for 2017/18**
		    1. JT
	  4. **Budget Recommendations to the Board**
		    2. RES-OWIS-SC-2016-12:Resolution: vote: n-n - in favour - Recommended to Board - an annual budget provision of EUR NN,000.
17. **Any other business**
    1. JT
18. **Summary of recommendations to the Board**
	  1. PR
19. **Closure of the meeting**
	  1. JT

---

#### Participants
- JT - Jeremy Tandy, Met Office, UK [UKMO], [delegate], Chair
- MDA - Matteo Dell'Aqua, Meteo-France, France [MF], [delegate]
- WQ - Weiqing Qu, Bureau of Meteorology, Australia [BoM], [delegate], (WebEx)
- SD - Sungsoo Do, Korea Meteorological Administration, Republic of Korea [KMA], [delegate (proxy)]
- KS - Kari Sheets, National Weather Service, United States of America [NWS], [delegate]
- LLG - Loic Le Gallou, Meteo-France International [MFI], [delegate]
- MV - Mikko Visa, Finnish Meteorological Institute [FMI], [delegate]
- SO - Steve Olson, National Weather Service, United States of America [NWS]
- RGb - Remy Gibault, Meteo-France International [MFI]
- MP - Mikko Partio, Finnish Meteorological Institute [FMI]
- BS - Benjamin Saclier, Meteo-France, France [MF]
- RGr - Remy Giraud, Meteo-France, France [MF]
- BR - Baudouin Raoult, European Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting [ECMWF]
- PR - Paul Rogers, Met Office, UK [UKMO]
- MF - Mark Francis, Met Office, UK [UKMO]
- DW - Dominic Woollatt, Met Office, UK [UKMO]
- NM - Nassos Michas, European Dynamics, [UKMO]
