---
layout: page
title: Provisional Agenda - OpenWIS Steering Committee 2017 June - teleconference
---

#### 29th June 2017

---

(The responsibilities of the Steering Committee [SC] are described in Article 13)

1. **Welcome and introductions**
    - SC Chair
2. **Approve previous SC meeting minutes** 
    - SC Chair
    - [OpenWIS Steering Committee 2017 March minutes]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/minutes/2017-03-22-OpenWIS-Steering-Committee.html)
3. **Identification of priority topics for OpenWIS Steering Committee 2017 June** 
    - SC Chair
    - OpenWIS Core work plan; review new Project Charters; rule change regarding how Association funds may be spent; identification of funding sources …
    - Deferred topics; these will benefit from time to reflect on the agreed plan of work for OpenWIS Core
        - Risk review (see actions [Action-SC-2016-14 Add new risks to Risk Register](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/170) and [Action-SC-2017-20 Risks to the Association](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/191))
        - Update Goals of OpenWIS Association (see Action-SC-2017 39-44, 46-48 and 54-56, and [Action-SC-2017-45 Goals for the Association](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/216) “Each SC delegate should propose 3 goals for the Association (not the OpenWIS-Core project), for discussion at the June 2017 SC” )
4. **Next meeting** 
    - SC Chair
    - Propose next SC teleconference in September 2017 (following northern hemisphere summer break) to resolve deferred topics
5. **Approval of agenda**
6. **Review open actions and issues**
    - SC Chair
    - [OpenWIS Action Tracker 2017 March]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/minutes/2017-03-15-OpenWIS-Action-Tracker-2017-Mar.html)
    - … in actual fact, we will not have time to review all the actions; please be aware of your assigned actions
7. **OpenWIS Core work plan**
    - Proposal from Technical Committee (Steve Olson) 
        - See [Action-SC-2017-23 Future development options report](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/194)
        - Also see related actions [Action-SC-2017-21 Feature comparison for v3 vs v4](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/192) and [Action-SC-2017-22 v4 MVP cost estimate](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/193)
    - Steering Committee recommendation to the Board (SC Chair)
8. **Review rule clarification on how Association’s funds may be spent**
    - SC Chair
    - See [Action-BM-2017-04 Internal Rule change on funding projects](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/228) *“Propose an Internal Rule change to allow Association funds to be provided to a project during special circumstances, including, but not limited to, during project incubation.”*
    - See [Pull Request 279](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/pull/279) for pending change
9. **Review new Project Charters**
    - SmartMet (Mikko Visa) 
        - See [Action-SC-2017-15 smartmet project proposal](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/186) *“Work with the TC to determine how the smartmet project might operate within the Association in practical terms (eg: where should repos be, how would PMC work etc). Draft a Project Charter and report back to SC in June.”*
    - WIS 2.0 (Kari Sheets) 
        - See [Action-SC-2017-16 Project Charter for WIS 2.0](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/187) 
        - *Discussion*: does the proposal for OpenWIS Core 5.0 (re OpenWIS Core work plan) subsume the WIS2.0 Project Charter? Can we retrofit a Charter to the existing OpenWIS Core project, e.g. to help formally clarify the split in responsibilities for PMC and TC?
        - *Discussion*: designation of OpenWIS Core 5.0 / WIS 2.0 as a WMO/CBS Affiliated Project
    - Weather API (Jeremy Tandy)
        - See [Action-SC-2017-17 Project Charter for Weather API](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/188)
10. **Clarify intent for revision of Technical Committee, Steering Committee and Board roles** 
    - SC Chair
    - Agree scope and allocation/assignment of action item [Action-SC-2017-14 Improve processes for managing new projects](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/185) *“In light of the discussion around new projects during SC-MAR2017 (eg: FMI's [smartmet](https://github.com/fmidev/)) and the uncertainties this has surfaced around the roles of PMC/TC/SC, review the Articles, Internal Rules and Technical Rules and propose any improvements.”*
    - See [SC-2017-March minutes]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/minutes/2017-03-22-OpenWIS-Steering-Committee.html) section 13.1.3 and [SC-2016-March minutes]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/minutes/2016-03-09-OpenWIS-Steering-Committee-2016-Mar.html) 13.1.3 and [PMC structure diagram]({{ site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}/assets/ATT-OWIS-SC-2016-7_owis-committee-structure.pdf) for relevant discussion; 
    - See [Pull Request 145](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/pull/145) and [changes to documentation files](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/pull/145/files) relating to *“edits to describe governance for multiple projects”* - all approved in accordance with **RESOLUTION-AM-2016-09**
    - Also see related items 
        - ACTION-AM-2016-01 *“TC will act as PMC for OpenWIS Core Project”*
        - [Action-SC-2017-01 Update Technical Rules to clarify roles](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/172) *“Update the Technical Rules to clarify the roles in the development process”*
        - [Action-SC-2016-14 Add new risks to Risk Register](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/170) *“Add a risk to the Risk Register stating that the Articles/Rules of the Association do not adequately define the architecture role of the TC (Article 14.1)”*
        - [Action-BM-2017-02 New agenda structure for Annual Meeting in 2018](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/226) *“Propose a new schedule of meetings for next year that clarifies the responsibilities of the various committees; something like PMC(s), TC, SC, Board.”*
11. **Review funding calls pertinent for OpenWIS Association; e.g. to support evolution of WIS**
    - European Commission Horizon 2020 (Baudouin Raoult)
        - See action [Action-SC-2017-25 Horizon 2020 funding calls](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/196)
    - US funding calls (Kari Sheets) 
        - See action [Action-SC-2017-26 US funding calls](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/197)
    - Australian funding calls (Weiqing Qu) 
        - see action [Action-SC-2017-27 Aus funding calls](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/198)
12. **Recommendations to the Board regarding admission of new Members or Partners** 
    - Rémy Giraud
    - Clarify status of ECMWF application to join OpenWIS Association 
        - See [Action-SC-2017-07 Finalise the ECMWF agreement](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/178) 
        - Also see actions [Action-SC-2017-09 Clarify ECMWF taxes](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/180) and [Action-SC-2017-10 Formalise ECMWF payment option](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/181)
    - Notification of any other applications 
13. **Any other business**
    - Contributor License Agreement (CLA)
        - Update on review of CLA legal text (Paul Rogers) 
            - See [Action-SC-2017-29 CLA legal reviews](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/200)
        - Submission of completed CLA forms (Paul Rogers) 
            - See [Action-SC-2017-19 Submit completed CLA forms](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/190)
        - Storage of hardcopy CLA forms (Rémy Giraud) 
            - See [Action-SC-2017-30 Hardcopy CLA forms](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/201)
14. **Summary of recommendations to the Board**
	  - SC Chair
15. **Closure of the meeting**
	  - SC Chair

---
