---
layout: page
title: Provisional Agenda - OpenWIS Technical Committee 2017 March - Toulouse
---

#### 20th - 22nd March 2017

---

1. **Welcome and introductions**
    - WQ
2. **Approval of agenda**
    - WQ
3. **Declaration of delegates**
    - PR - Record who is a TC member and who is an observer and any proxies.
4. **Outstanding actions**
    - PR - Action Tracker
5. **Development retrospective (past year)**
    1. LM - OpenWIS 3.14 release
6. **Current development planning (coming year)**
    1. WQ - Status and plans for operations within each organisation  
        1. Operational architectures for GISC/DCPC/NC  
        2. What harnesses are in use for dissemination, local data source, data source?  
        3. Tools around OpenWIS  
            1. MC - Metadata tool 'excel2wis'              
    2. **Development process for OpenWIS4**
        1. PR - Lifecycle description; with particular emphasis on what the new terms 'feature' and 'squad' mean in this context, and how they will work in practice
        2. NM - Overlay Approach; what is it and why do we need it?
        3. NM - Skills and training - how will we transfer skills in the Overlay Approach?
        4. PR - Developer Conference - when and where is best to embed Overlay Approach skills?
        5. XX - Engagement with the Core GeoNetwork Community
        6. SO - Process for handling contributions offered from external collaborators
    3. **Development facilities for OpenWIS4**
        1. MC - status of MF servers
        2. XX - status of AWS CI  
        3. SO - Options for Forum - Discus, Discourse, BBnotes
    4. **OpenWIS 4**
        1. XX - Progress to date
        2. PR - Release roadmap for next 12 months - schedule releases 4.1 and 4.2
        3. DW - GeoNetwork3 features relevant to OpenWIS4; including demo of Core GeoNetwork 3.2 and OpenWIS 4.0  
        4. XX - Compliance of OpenWIS4 to WIS Technical Regulations
7. **Future strategy (to 3 years ahead)**
    1. **WIS 2.0**
        1. JT - WIS 2.0 Status Update:
    2. **Advanced Message Queue PoC**
        1. NM - Description/demo of the PoC
    3. **Metadata hierarchies**
        1. DW - Why we need metadata hierarchies
8. **Planning workshop**
    - kanban board at: http://openwis.github.io/openwis-documentation/kanban/
    - backlog at: http://openwis.github.io/openwis-documentation/backlog/
    - We will go through the kanban/backlog items and agree the following:
        - the definition and priority (MSCW) of each kanban/backlog item
        - which kanban/backlog items belong to which Features
        - which Features are candidates for releases 4.1 and 4.2
    - this will include work on the website and docs as well as the code (they are all on the kanban)
    - PR will add any new ideas to the backlog, preferably before the meeting, but can do during as well
    - new backlog items can just refer to an issue on GitHub, otherwise, a brief description would be useful for PR to publish on the website prior to the meeting
9.  **Allocation of people to squads to features**
    1. PR - work allocation:
        - establish who is interested in each feature
        - build squads accordingly
        - firm up on lists of Features for upcoming releases (eg: 3.14.9 and 4.1)
10. **AOB**

---
