rules/6-membership-and-partnership-fees-rights-privileges-and-obligations.md, before:

---
layout: rules
title: TITLE 6&#58; MEMBERSHIP AND PARTNERSHIP FEES, RIGHTS, PRIVILEGES AND OBLIGATIONS

# :contents is an array of two element arrays that defines the menu which appears in the masthead
# each subarray should be in the form ["anchor-name","clickable title"]

contents : [
    ["#rule-6.1", "Rule 6.1"],
    ["#rule-6.2", "Rule 6.2"],
    ["#rule-6.3", "Rule 6.3"],
    ["#rule-6.4", "Rule 6.4"],
    ["#rule-6.5", "Rule 6.5"],
    ["#rule-6.6", "Rule 6.6"],
    ["#rule-6.7", "Rule 6.7"],
    ["#rule-6.8", "Rule 6.8"]
]
---

<h2 id="rule-6.1">Rule 6.1</h2>

Membership fees, subscriptions and contributions are due from all Members and Partners of the Association, as set down in these [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}).

A **Contributor** is a person contributing to code and/or non-code activities within a Project. Individual Contributors pay no fees or subscriptions. 

<h2 id="rule-6.2">Rule 6.2</h2>

In accordance with [Article 12.5]({{ "/articles/12-board.html#article-12.5" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) of the [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}), membership fees shall be set by the Board at each Annual Meeting, following review and approval of the accounts of the Association and approval of the Association’s budget for the coming financial year. [Rule 6.3](#rule-6.3) of these [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) will be updated accordingly. In the event that the Board does not explicitly change the membership fees, the fees from the previous year will continue to apply.

<h2 id="rule-6.3">Rule 6.3</h2>

The current fees payable by Members and Partners of the Association are set out below:

&nbsp;                | **On admission as a Member or Partner** | **Subsequent Annual Contribution**
--------------------- | --------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------
**Member**            | €200,000                                | NIL
**Strategic Partner** | €200,000                                | NIL
**Associate Partner** | NIL                                     | €10,000 **or** €40,000 for a five year term, at the Partner’s option

<h2 id="rule-6.4">Rule 6.4</h2>

The rights and privileges afforded to Members, Strategic Partners, Associate Partners, and Contributors in return for their fees (where applicable), shall be as set out in the table below:

&nbsp; | **Member** | **Strategic Partner** | **Associate Partner** | **Contributors**
------ | ---------- | --------------------- | --------------------- | ----------------
Right to appoint a Representative to the Board | &#x2713; | X | X | X
Right to appoint a Delegate to the Steering Committee (with vote) | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | X
Right to attend Steering Committee meetings as an observer (without vote) | X | X | &#x2713;
Right to propose new Projects | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | X
Reception of copies of the [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) and [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;
Reception of appropriate notice of all meetings of the Association which Member or Partner is eligible to attend | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | X
Information and consultation on an on-going basis about the activities of the Association | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | X
Access to the OpenWIS Software | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;
Access to documentation and reference implementations | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;
OpenWIS Community Support | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;
Visibility of the OpenWIS development roadmap | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;
Replies to new feature requests | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | X
Access to a sandbox reference implementation | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;
Eligible to participate in the Technical Committee subject to qualifying criteria in [Article 14.2]({{ "/articles/articles/14-technical-committee.html#article-14.2" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;
Eligible to participate in OpenWIS Project Management Committees, user groups, workshops and conferences | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;

<h2 id="rule-6.5">Rule 6.5</h2>

It is anticipated that the fees set out in [Rule 6.3](#rule-6.3) shall be sufficient to meet the running costs of the Association (as anticipated by [Article 10.1]({{ "/articles/10-membership-contributions-subscriptions-fees-and-additional-finance.html#article-10.1" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) of the [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }})). In the event that additional finance is required during the course of any year, this shall be sought according to the procedure set out in [Article 10]({{ "/articles/10-membership-contributions-subscriptions-fees-and-additional-finance.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) of the [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}).

<h2 id="rule-6.6">Rule 6.6</h2>

Calls for additional finance under [Rule 6.5](#rule-6.5) and Article 10 of the [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) shall not affect the right of the Board to adjust membership fees for the following year in accordance with [Rule 6.2](#rule-6.2).

<h2 id="rule-6.7">Rule 6.7</h2>

Members and Partners hold the following obligations towards the Association:

* To promptly appoint Representatives and Delegates to represent them at meetings of the Association, where required to do so;
* To promptly notify the Association of any change in the identity of their Representative and/or Delegate;
* To engage constructively in and make a positive contribution to all meetings and other activities of the Association;
* To engage with and promptly carry out their obligations under the Strategic Programme and Work Plans produced by the Association;
* To ensure that relevant information concerning the activities of the Association is circulated throughout the Member or Partner’s organisation, as appropriate; and
* To pay all fees, subscriptions and contributions due to the Association promptly and in full.

<h2 id="rule-6.8">Rule 6.8</h2>

Amounts due to the Association must be paid within 30 days of becoming due. In accordance with the Belgian Late Payment Law, interest on amounts overdue by more than 30 days will be charged at 8 percentage points on top of the interest rate applied by the European Central Bank to its most recent main refinancing operation, rounded up to the higher half percentage point.

[previous: TITLE 5]({{ "/rules/5-relationship-with-organisational-partners.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) \| [next: TITLE 7]({{ "/rules/7-management-structure-and-qualification-of-officers.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Commit message:

added obligation for Contributors to comply with the code of conduct

rules/6-membership-and-partnership-fees-rights-privileges-and-obligations.md, after:

---
layout: rules
title: TITLE 6&#58; MEMBERSHIP AND PARTNERSHIP FEES, RIGHTS, PRIVILEGES AND OBLIGATIONS

# :contents is an array of two element arrays that defines the menu which appears in the masthead
# each subarray should be in the form ["anchor-name","clickable title"]

contents : [
    ["#rule-6.1", "Rule 6.1"],
    ["#rule-6.2", "Rule 6.2"],
    ["#rule-6.3", "Rule 6.3"],
    ["#rule-6.4", "Rule 6.4"],
    ["#rule-6.5", "Rule 6.5"],
    ["#rule-6.6", "Rule 6.6"],
    ["#rule-6.7", "Rule 6.7"],
    ["#rule-6.8", "Rule 6.8"],
    ["#rule-6.9", "Rule 6.9"]
]
---

<h2 id="rule-6.1">Rule 6.1</h2>

Membership fees, subscriptions and contributions are due from all Members and Partners of the Association, as set down in these [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}).

A **Contributor** is a person contributing to code and/or non-code activities within a Project. Individual Contributors pay no fees or subscriptions. 

<h2 id="rule-6.2">Rule 6.2</h2>

In accordance with [Article 12.5]({{ "/articles/12-board.html#article-12.5" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) of the [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}), membership fees shall be set by the Board at each Annual Meeting, following review and approval of the accounts of the Association and approval of the Association’s budget for the coming financial year. [Rule 6.3](#rule-6.3) of these [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) will be updated accordingly. In the event that the Board does not explicitly change the membership fees, the fees from the previous year will continue to apply.

<h2 id="rule-6.3">Rule 6.3</h2>

The current fees payable by Members and Partners of the Association are set out below:

&nbsp;                | **On admission as a Member or Partner** | **Subsequent Annual Contribution**
--------------------- | --------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------
**Member**            | €200,000                                | NIL
**Strategic Partner** | €200,000                                | NIL
**Associate Partner** | NIL                                     | €10,000 **or** €40,000 for a five year term, at the Partner’s option

<h2 id="rule-6.4">Rule 6.4</h2>

The rights and privileges afforded to Members, Strategic Partners, Associate Partners, and Contributors in return for their fees (where applicable), shall be as set out in the table below:

&nbsp; | **Member** | **Strategic Partner** | **Associate Partner** | **Contributors**
------ | ---------- | --------------------- | --------------------- | ----------------
Right to appoint a Representative to the Board | &#x2713; | X | X | X
Right to appoint a Delegate to the Steering Committee (with vote) | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | X
Right to attend Steering Committee meetings as an observer (without vote) | X | X | &#x2713;
Right to propose new Projects | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | X
Reception of copies of the [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) and [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;
Reception of appropriate notice of all meetings of the Association which Member or Partner is eligible to attend | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | X
Information and consultation on an on-going basis about the activities of the Association | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | X
Access to the OpenWIS Software | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;
Access to documentation and reference implementations | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;
OpenWIS Community Support | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;
Visibility of the OpenWIS development roadmap | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;
Replies to new feature requests | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | X
Access to a sandbox reference implementation | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;
Eligible to participate in the Technical Committee subject to qualifying criteria in [Article 14.2]({{ "/articles/articles/14-technical-committee.html#article-14.2" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;
Eligible to participate in OpenWIS Project Management Committees, user groups, workshops and conferences | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713; | &#x2713;

<h2 id="rule-6.5">Rule 6.5</h2>

It is anticipated that the fees set out in [Rule 6.3](#rule-6.3) shall be sufficient to meet the running costs of the Association (as anticipated by [Article 10.1]({{ "/articles/10-membership-contributions-subscriptions-fees-and-additional-finance.html#article-10.1" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) of the [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }})). In the event that additional finance is required during the course of any year, this shall be sought according to the procedure set out in [Article 10]({{ "/articles/10-membership-contributions-subscriptions-fees-and-additional-finance.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) of the [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}).

<h2 id="rule-6.6">Rule 6.6</h2>

Calls for additional finance under [Rule 6.5](#rule-6.5) and Article 10 of the [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) shall not affect the right of the Board to adjust membership fees for the following year in accordance with [Rule 6.2](#rule-6.2).

<h2 id="rule-6.7">Rule 6.7</h2>

Members and Partners hold the following obligations towards the Association:

* To promptly appoint Representatives and Delegates to represent them at meetings of the Association, where required to do so;
* To promptly notify the Association of any change in the identity of their Representative and/or Delegate;
* To engage constructively in and make a positive contribution to all meetings and other activities of the Association;
* To engage with and promptly carry out their obligations under the Strategic Programme and Work Plans produced by the Association;
* To ensure that relevant information concerning the activities of the Association is circulated throughout the Member or Partner’s organisation, as appropriate; and
* To pay all fees, subscriptions and contributions due to the Association promptly and in full.

<h2 id="rule-6.8">Rule 6.8</h2>

Amounts due to the Association must be paid within 30 days of becoming due. In accordance with the Belgian Late Payment Law, interest on amounts overdue by more than 30 days will be charged at 8 percentage points on top of the interest rate applied by the European Central Bank to its most recent main refinancing operation, rounded up to the higher half percentage point.

<h2 id="rule-6.9">Rule 6.9</h2>

Contributors shall comply with the [OpenWIS&reg; Code of Conduct]({{ "/conduct/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}).

[previous: TITLE 5]({{ "/rules/5-relationship-with-organisational-partners.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) \| [next: TITLE 7]({{ "/rules/7-management-structure-and-qualification-of-officers.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }})
