rules/7-management-structure-and-qualification-of-officers.md, before:

---
layout: rules
title: TITLE 7&#58; MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE AND QUALIFICATION OF CERTAIN OFFICERS

# :contents is an array of two element arrays that defines the menu which appears in the masthead
# each subarray should be in the form ["anchor-name","clickable title"]

contents : [
    ["#rule-7.1", "Rule 7.1"],
    ["#rule-7.2", "Rule 7.2"],
    ["#rule-7.3", "Rule 7.3"],
    ["#rule-7.4", "Rule 7.4"],
    ["#rule-7.5", "Rule 7.5"],
    ["#rule-7.6", "Rule 7.6"],
    ["#rule-7.7", "Rule 7.7"]
]
---

<h2 id="rule-7.1">Rule 7.1</h2>

The management structure of the Association, together with details of its governing bodies, competences of those bodies, voting procedure, and the appointment, term, and removal of Representatives and Delegates appointed to those bodies is fully described in Articles [11]({{ "/articles/11-management-structure.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) to [14]({{ "/articles/14-technical-committee.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) of the [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}). These [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) supplement those Articles.

<h2 id="rule-7.2">Rule 7.2</h2>

In accordance with the [Article 12.6]({{ "/articles/12-board.html#article-12.6" | prepend: site.baseurl }}), the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson of the Association must be selected from amongst the Representatives appointed to the Board by each Member. This stipulation does not apply to the appointment of the Treasurer, whose eligibility for election shall be determined in accordance with [Rule 7.3](#rule-7.3) of these [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}).

<h2 id="rule-7.3">Rule 7.3</h2>

Candidates for election as Treasurer of the Association must meet the following criteria:

* The candidate must be employed by a Member of the Association
* The candidate must hold a recognised accounting or finance qualification (for example, ACCA or ACMA)
* The candidate must not be an undischarged bankrupt, or have been discharged from bankruptcy within the six years prior to his or her proposal as a candidate.

<h2 id="rule-7.4">Rule 7.4</h2>

A Managing Director who is approaching the end of his or her two-year term should, if eligible for re-election, inform the other Representatives as to whether he or she plans to stand for re-election at least three months before his or her term comes to an end.

<h2 id="rule-7.5">Rule 7.5</h2>

An SC Chair or SC Vice-Chair who is approaching the end of his or her twelve-month term should if eligible for re-election, inform the other Delegates as to whether he or she plans to stand for re-election at least one months before his or her term comes to an end.

<h2 id="rule-7.6">Rule 7.6</h2>

For every Project established within the Association, the Steering Committee shall, in accordance with [Article 13.2]({{ "/articles/13-steering-committee.html#article-13.2" | prepend: site.baseurl }}), create a **Project Management Committee** with responsibility for leading each Project.

<h2 id="rule-7.7">Rule 7.7</h2>

The Technical Committee shall operate as a cross-Project technical architecture / design authority body that provides technical oversight; (i) monitoring, guiding, and influencing the software architectures used by Projects, (ii) new Project mentoring, and (iii) including maintaining and revising the [Technical Rules]({{ "/tr/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) of the Association.

[previous: TITLE 6]({{ "/rules/6-membership-and-partnership-fees-rights-privileges-and-obligations.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) \| [next: TITLE 8]({{ "/rules/8-meetings.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }})

Commit message:

added statement about Steering Committee appointing the Project Leader

rules/7-management-structure-and-qualification-of-officers.md, after:

---
layout: rules
title: TITLE 7&#58; MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE AND QUALIFICATION OF CERTAIN OFFICERS

# :contents is an array of two element arrays that defines the menu which appears in the masthead
# each subarray should be in the form ["anchor-name","clickable title"]

contents : [
    ["#rule-7.1", "Rule 7.1"],
    ["#rule-7.2", "Rule 7.2"],
    ["#rule-7.3", "Rule 7.3"],
    ["#rule-7.4", "Rule 7.4"],
    ["#rule-7.5", "Rule 7.5"],
    ["#rule-7.6", "Rule 7.6"],
    ["#rule-7.7", "Rule 7.7"],
    ["#rule-7.8", "Rule 7.8"]
]
---

<h2 id="rule-7.1">Rule 7.1</h2>

The management structure of the Association, together with details of its governing bodies, competences of those bodies, voting procedure, and the appointment, term, and removal of Representatives and Delegates appointed to those bodies is fully described in Articles [11]({{ "/articles/11-management-structure.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) to [14]({{ "/articles/14-technical-committee.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) of the [Articles of Association]({{ "/articles/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}). These [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) supplement those Articles.

<h2 id="rule-7.2">Rule 7.2</h2>

In accordance with the [Article 12.6]({{ "/articles/12-board.html#article-12.6" | prepend: site.baseurl }}), the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson of the Association must be selected from amongst the Representatives appointed to the Board by each Member. This stipulation does not apply to the appointment of the Treasurer, whose eligibility for election shall be determined in accordance with [Rule 7.3](#rule-7.3) of these [Internal Rules]({{ "/rules/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}).

<h2 id="rule-7.3">Rule 7.3</h2>

Candidates for election as Treasurer of the Association must meet the following criteria:

* The candidate must be employed by a Member of the Association
* The candidate must hold a recognised accounting or finance qualification (for example, ACCA or ACMA)
* The candidate must not be an undischarged bankrupt, or have been discharged from bankruptcy within the six years prior to his or her proposal as a candidate.

<h2 id="rule-7.4">Rule 7.4</h2>

A Managing Director who is approaching the end of his or her two-year term should, if eligible for re-election, inform the other Representatives as to whether he or she plans to stand for re-election at least three months before his or her term comes to an end.

<h2 id="rule-7.5">Rule 7.5</h2>

An SC Chair or SC Vice-Chair who is approaching the end of his or her twelve-month term should if eligible for re-election, inform the other Delegates as to whether he or she plans to stand for re-election at least one months before his or her term comes to an end.

<h2 id="rule-7.6">Rule 7.6</h2>

For every Project established within the Association, the Steering Committee shall, in accordance with [Article 13.2]({{ "/articles/13-steering-committee.html#article-13.2" | prepend: site.baseurl }}), create a **Project Management Committee** with responsibility for leading each Project.

<h2 id="rule-7.7">Rule 7.7</h2>

The Steering Committee shall appoint a Contributor as the **Project Leader** for each Project Management Committee who has, in their opinion, the appropriate capacity, training, skills and/or experience to lead the associated Project.

<h2 id="rule-7.8">Rule 7.8</h2>

The Technical Committee shall operate as a cross-Project technical architecture / design authority body that provides technical oversight; (i) monitoring, guiding, and influencing the software architectures used by Projects, (ii) new Project mentoring, and (iii) including maintaining and revising the [Technical Rules]({{ "/tr/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) of the Association.

[previous: TITLE 6]({{ "/rules/6-membership-and-partnership-fees-rights-privileges-and-obligations.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }}) \| [next: TITLE 8]({{ "/rules/8-meetings.html" | prepend: site.baseurl }})
