---
layout: page
title: OpenWIS Technical Committee 2018 February
minuteOwner: technical
---

#### 12:00 UTC 22nd February 2018

---

1. **CBS TECO Demo**
    1. Updates/demo from [European Dynamics](http://www.eurodyn.com/) on pilot progress and next steps.
        1. BS - NM, would you please give us a brief report on how the PoC is going?
        1. NM - Ok. The pilot we are building has a Local Data Sharing Hub (LDSH), where the data sets are initially published by the data owner; a Regional Data Sharing Hub (RDSH), which collates data sets from the LDSHs; and an Authoritative WIS Catalogue (AWISC), which is where official WIS data sets are registered.
        2. NM - The development is progressing well and we are expecting to finish on time at the beginning of March.
        3. NM - By next Thursday we should be able to show how it all works together. Should we arrange a meeting to show that?
        4. PR - Ok, I'll arrange that.
            - PR - [Action-TC-2018-05 Arrange a PoC demo for the TC for the end of Feb](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/362)
        5. NM - Maybe we want another meeting to prepare and practise for the demo itself?
        6. PR - Ok, I'll arrange that.
            - PR [Action-TC-2018-06 Arrange a discussion on the demo narrative](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/363)
2. **Name for PoC**
    1. BS - I have asked the SC to consider the results of the poll on the new name. It looks like the favourite is OpenWIS2, but we shall see.
    2. BS - Would there be any problem changing the name in the PoC?
    3. NM - No, that is ok. GT, you wanted to ask something?
    4. GT - Ok, yes. We need to know as soon as possible what you want to use as the city names for which we are collecting data sets. How many depends on how many Mouktars (data collectors) we are expecting to include in the demo. We need to make the changes to the city names by the beginning of March, so that Google we have re-indexed the new names by the time of the demo.
    5. PR - Ok. I'll raise a GitHub issue where people can suggest city names. I'll put some default names in that you can use if no-one else responds in time.
        - PR - [Action-TC-2018-07 Provide a list of city names to use for the PoC](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/364)
    6. BS - Will we be able to see how to subscribe to queues during the demo?
    7. NM - Yes. We are using MQTT so we could just subscribe to a queue using an MQTT app. Another option would be a simple command line client; that wouldn't take much effort.
    8. BS - Will it be possible to subscribe from a mobile phone?
    9. NM - Well, we could do a simple page app. I wouldn't like to commit to that because it might turn out to involve some work.
    10. BS - Is there maybe something already?
    11. NM - Perhaps, we can have a look.
        - NM - [Action-TC-2018-08 Check out whether there is a phone app for MQTT subs](https://github.com/OpenWIS/openwis-documentation/issues/365)
3. **OpenWIS Annual Meeting**
    1. BS - Is the date for the meeting now agreed?
    2. PR - Yes, week beginning 28th May 2018.
    3. BS - Is it 2 days of TC, 2 days of SC?
    4. PR - We're separating the PMC and TC this time, so it'll be a PMC followed by a shorter TC, then 2 days of SC, then a day for the Board meeting.
    5. BS - Do we have an agenda yet?
    6. PR - Not yet.
    7. BS - I assume we will discuss the future of OpenWIS.
    8. PR - I think so. We will get a report on how the CBS TECO demo went and any feedback from there, then discuss the way forward.
    9. MP - I would like to welcome everyone to FMI at Helsinki, Finland, for the last week of May.
    10. MP - We have arranged 1 meeting room with connectivity etc for the meeting. If we need 2 rooms then we will need to arrange that.
    11. PR - 1 room will be ok; the meetings will run one after the other and involve most of the same people.
4.  **Any other business**
    1. BS - Any thing else? No? Ok, thank you, then we close the TC.

---

#### Participants

- BS - Benjamin Saclier, Meteo-France, France [MF], Vice-chair (chairing)
- MP - Mikko Partio, Finnish Meteorological Institute, Finland [FMI], [delegate]
- NM - Nassos Michas, European Dynamics, [UKMO]
- GT - Giorgios Triantafyllidis, European Dynamics, [UKMO]
- DP - Dimitris Papadeas, European Dynamics, [UKMO]
- PR - Paul Rogers, Met Office, UK [UKMO]

#### Apologies

- SO - Steve Olson, National Weather Service, USA [NWS], Chair
- YG - Yves Goupil, Meteo-France, France [MF]
- MG - Marc Giannoni, National Weather Service, USA [NWS]
- RGb - Remy Gibault, Meteo-France International [MFI]
- SD - Sungsoo Do, Korea Meteorological Administration, Republic of Korea [KMA], [delegate]
- MC - Michael Claudon, Meteo-France, France [MF]
- JP - Jamie Piulachs, Bureau of Meteorology, Australia [BoM]
- DW - Dominic Woollatt, Met Office, UK [UKMO]
- DJ - Duncan Jeffery, Met Office, UK [UKMO]
- JT - Jeremy Tandy, Met Office, UK [UKMO]
